Agent Liberty

Agent Liberty (Benjamin Lockwood) is a fictional superhero character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Dan Jurgens, he made his debut in Superman vol. 2, #60 (October 1991), and was later given his own solo adventure in Agent Liberty Special # 1 (1992).Sam Witwer portrayed a version of the character in the fourth season of Supergirl. Witwer returned in the 100th episode of the fifth season.


== Fictional character biography ==
Benjamin Lockwood once worked for the CIA but ultimately left in disgust at their methods and the types of missions he was being asked to undertake. He became so disenchanted with the Federal Government as a whole that he joined the paramilitary group called the Sons of Liberty, who outfitted him with the outfit and equipment to become Agent Liberty. As Agent Liberty, Lockwood helped to forward the Sons' cause of overturning the governmental regime which brought him into conflict with Superman, though he later briefly assisted the Justice League in battling Brainiac in the crossover Panic in the Sky. However, when the Sons asked him to assassinate politician Pete Ross, Lockwood refused and helped to bring down the group by sending vital information to reporter Clark Kent (Superman's secret civilian identity).
Lockwood later learns that one of the founders of the Sons of Liberty was his former CIA mentor, and he became so disgusted with this revelation that he burned his Agent Liberty costume, vowing to never adopt the persona again. However, Lockwood subsequently becomes one of the many unwillingly brainwashed victims of a cult started by Brainiac and takes up the Agent Liberty identity once more. Agent Liberty and the other kidnapped meta-humans are rescued by Huntress and Vixen. Later, during the Earth-shaking crisis of Infinite Crisis, Agent Liberty is seen at a mass for fallen and missing superheroes.

Dozens of heroes, Agent Liberty included, also gather to defend the city of Metropolis from the Secret Society of Super-Villains. Liberty is seen heading for a heavily-armed cyborg being. Ultimately, the Society loses the battle.
Agent Liberty comes out of retirement to act as a member of the President's security detail while meeting with Superman and other Kryptonians newly arrived on Earth.He was apparently killed when Superwoman uses her heat vision on him after she caught him spying on Sam Lane and Lex Luthor. His body was dumped in Metropolis Harbor where it was discovered and brought ashore by a group of boaters. Upon an autopsy it is discovered that Agent Liberty's suit had sent out a distress signal at the moment of his death, leaving clues to who killed him. Metropolis Metacrimes Inspector headed the investigation into Agent Liberty's murder. Before he could remove Liberty's armor, Lucy Lane had Lockwood's body removed from Metropolis City Hospital.


== Powers and abilities ==
Agent Liberty is a highly skilled in military tactics, hand-to-hand combat, and marksmanship. His high-tech battle suit can generate a force-field of energy capable of deflecting bullets, houses weapons such as retractable gauntlet blades, and is equipped with a jetpack that allows for flight.


== Other characters named Agent Liberty ==
During the Codename: Patriot arc, a new female Agent Liberty has been seen as part of President Martin Suarez' security team. It is unknown at this time if she is connected to the Sons of Liberty, or even her predecessor Benjamin Lockwood, or if she is in fact yet another agent in General Lane's considerable list of operatives. The new Agent Liberty is apparently killed by Ursa when she attacks the White House during the War of the Supermen.


== In other media ==

Sam Witwer portrays a loose adaptation of Agent Liberty on Supergirl, set within The CW's live-action Arrowverse. Introduced as the "ruthless and terrifying" villain of the fourth season, this version of the character is depicted as "a brilliant orator in the guise of a family man" who has "eerie abilities of persuasion and manipulation". Benjamin "Ben" Lockwood was once a mild-mannered college history professor who only became an anti-alien activist after losing his home and father Peter (portrayed by Xander Berkeley) during the Daxamite invasion and Reign's terraforming of Earth, respectively. Upon being fired by the university for his anti-alien opinions, Ben was approached by Lex Luthor's subordinates, Mercy and Otis Graves, who gave him the gear to become a self-proclaimed "Agent of Liberty". As Agent Liberty, Ben founds the Children of Liberty, a human-supremacist group that supports a human-first world order, to rid National City of all alien life whilst keeping these activities a secret from his wife Lydia (portrayed by Sarah Smyth) and son George (portrayed by Graham Verchere). He later defeats reporter Kara Danvers, Supergirl's secret civilian identity, during an alien debate on national television, prompting the network to offer him his very own weekly show named "The Lockdown". Ben is arrested after Supergirl learns of Agent Liberty's true identity with the help of the DEO, and a large crowd of human rights activists led by Lydia then rallies outside National City Men's Central Jail to protest his imprisonment. Ben is given a full pardon by President Phil Baker, who answers to Lex, on the technicality that all of his victims were aliens rather than humans. He is promoted by Baker as the Director of Alien Affairs for the US government and repeals the Alien Amnesty Act. After Red Daughter poses as Supergirl and attacks the White House at Lex's request, Baker enforces martial law and deputizes Ben's Children of Liberty, giving them access to weapons from the DEO to begin rounding up aliens on the streets. Ben later injects himself with Lena Luthor's experimental "Harun-El" serum and gains superhuman abilities to avenge Lydia's death at the hands of one such alien. Upon learning that Lex was the one who orchestrated his rise within the government, Ben kills Otis and attacks Luthor's base of operations on Shelley Island with his Children of Liberty only to encounter Supergirl's team instead. In the ensuing battle, Ben is cured of the Harun-El by James Olsen, thus stripping him of his powers before he and his men are arrested by Alex Danvers. While incarcerated, Ben is enraged to see George blaming him for Lydia's murder and denouncing his anti-alien campaign on national television. In the fifth season episode "It's a Super Life", Mister Mxyzptlk presents an alternate reality where Supergirl revealed her identity to Lena from the start in which Ben's family died jumping off a building thinking that Supergirl would save them only for her not to show up. This led to Ben becoming Agent Liberty to abduct Lena and Thomas Coville with Otis' help in order to coerce Supergirl into revealing her identity. This led to the Children of Liberty killing Kara's loved ones.


== References ==


== External links ==
Agent Liberty at the Guide to the DC Universe