Baron Blitzkrieg

Baron Blitzkrieg is a fictional supervillain in the DC Comics universe, originally residing on Earth-Two. He first appeared in World's Finest Comics #246 (August–September 1977). His first several appearances marked an antagonistic relationship with Wonder Woman and he later faced both the Amazon and Superman towards the end of World War II.A version of the character named Baron Reiter appeared in the fourth season of the television series Arrow played by Jimmy Akingbola.


== Fictional character biography ==
He is a frequent opponent of the heroic All-Star Squadron, a band of costumed adventurers who fight domestic and foreign menaces during World War II. Baron Blitzkrieg was originally an especially vicious German army officer who was blinded and disfigured when a concentration camp prisoner threw a bottle in his face. German scientists restored his sight but not his appearance. So they experimented on Blitzkrieg, giving him superhuman strength, invulnerability, optical energy beams and the ability to fly. However, each of these abilities are manifested one at a time and only with training is he able to incorporate them together.Baron Blitzkrieg is the leader of Shadowspire and allied with Vandal Savage's organization known as Symbolix. Together, they incorporate experimental research which produces the superhero Damage. The Baron becomes a recurring foe in Damage's series, starting with issue number three.
During the JSA tie-in to Infinite Crisis, it is revealed that Baron Blitzkrieg has joined the Society. The Philadelphia heroine known as Liberty Belle, who gets her powers from the Liberty Bell, attempts to jumpstart her abilities by ringing the bell. However, due to the recent supposed death of Uncle Sam (who  later returned in A Brave New World), her powers are unfocused, and Blitzkrieg is thought to have been killed by the sonic shockwaves. He appears again in Infinite Crisis #7 where he is killed by Superboy-Prime who destroys the Baron's head with his heat vision.
Baron Blitzkrieg has been identified as one of the deceased entombed below the Hall of Justice. In Blackest Night #4, he is revived as a member of the Black Lantern Corps.
He also appeared in Batman: The Widening Gyre by Kevin Smith.


=== Baroness Blitzkrieg ===
One Year Later, a new, Nazi-themed speedster supervillain named Baroness Blitzkrieg recently appeared as a member of The Fourth Reich, a team of Nazi-themed supervillains in Justice Society of America. Brutal in her killings, she runs through her victims and turns them into pulp.
She is presumably a descendant of the original Baron Blitzkrieg; the Baroness joined the Nazi supervillain group Fourth Reich, and sometime before that group was hired by Vandal Savage to help exterminate the families of old Golden Age superheroes. For her part, the Baroness slaughtered several of the descendants of Commander Steel, but was later beaten by Jay Garrick during an unsuccessful attempt to kill young Mike Dugan, son of retired hero Stripesy and stepbrother of Stargirl.


== Powers and abilities ==
Baron Blitzkrieg has enhanced strength, agility and endurance. He wore body armor that offered some protection from physical attack. He has heat vision and he can fly.
The pre-Crisis version of the character could travel between Earth-2 and Earth-X.


== Other versions ==


=== Flashpoint ===
In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Baron Blitzkrieg is killed by Frankenstein with a sword driven through his chest.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Baron Reiter appears in Arrow as the main antagonist in the fourth season's flashbacks portrayed by Jimmy Akingbola. This version of the character is not German, but African nor is called Baron Blitzkrieg. He's occupying Lian Yu, the same island in previous flashbacks, enslaving people to harvest drugs. Reiter is a leader of criminal organisation called Shadowspire where he appeared in flashback, in the episode "A.W.O.L.". Oliver Queen is sent there to infiltrate them and learn what they're doing there by A.R.G.U.S.. The harvesting is later revealed to be a front for Reiter while his men look for a magical artifact called the Khushu Idol (which is used frequently by Damien Darhk). Once Oliver Queen and fellow slave Taiana Venediktov finds the map, they begin digging to find it. Eventually, they find it, but Oliver steals it and hides it in some caves then blows the entrance, but Reiter finds the idol and sacrifices two of his men to gain power from it to free himself. In "Schism", a confrontation between Tania, Oliver and Reiter breaks out resulting in Oliver killing Reiter and burying Taiana next to his dead father.
In the Stargirl episode Hourman and Doctor Mid-Nite, it was established that Baron Blitzkrieg murdered former All-Star and Freedom Fighter Red Bee, after his secret identity was exposed.


=== Web ===
In Freedom Fighters: The Ray, "Blitzkrieg" (the Earth-X version of Barry Allen and voiced by Scott Whyte) is a meta-human speedster and a member of the New Reichsmen, an elite group within the New Reich's Schutzstaffel forces. He is an amalgamation of Baron Blitzkrieg, Baroness Blitzkrieg, Blitzen and Nazi Flash. After a battle with the Freedom Fighters, Blitzkrieg, along with Black Arrow, was knocked unconscious long enough for them to lock him up.


== See also ==
List of Wonder Woman enemies


== References ==


== External links ==
Baron Blitzkrieg   on DC Database,  an external wiki, a DC Comics wiki