Blackwing

Blackwing is the name of two fictional supervillains and one hero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
A 1940s version of Joseph Manfredi appeared in the second season of Agent Carter set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe portrayed by Ken Marino.


== Publication history ==
The first Blackwing appeared in Daredevil #118 and was created by Gerry Conway and Don Heck.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Joseph Manfredi ===
Joseph Manfredi was born in Orlando, Florida, and is the son of the crime lord Silvermane. When he debuted, he was a costumed animal trainer for the Ringmaster's Circus of Crime. While as a member of that group, he battled with Daredevil and escaped.Blackwing worked as an agent for Silvermane's HYDRA (serving as the Air Action Division Leader) when his father was leader. He participated in the capture of Foggy Nelson. Blackwing battled Daredevil, Black Widow, Nick Fury, and S.H.I.E.L.D. and was once again defeated by Daredevil.Blackwing later teamed up with Jack O'Lantern to stake out his father's house when the Red Skull took the control of the base, turning the dilapidated mansion into his so-called Skull House. The duo searched Skullhouse and battled Captain America during this event. Blackwing and Jack O'Lantern were recruited by Mother Night to join the Skeleton Crew after the Red Skull was impressed with their abilities. Blackwing, Jack O'Lantern, and Cutthroat fought Crossbones and Diamondback before they joined the Skeleton Crew. Blackwing captured Diamondback, and then battled Diamondback as she escaped. He and the rest of the Skeleton Crew were defeated by Captain America, Diamondback, and Falcon. He was defeated in combat by Falcon, and taken to the Vault.The second Crimson Cowl recruited Blackwing to join her incarnation of the Masters of Evil. He was defeated alongside them.After that last defeat, Joseph abandoned the Blackwing identity and became a crime lord creating his own private villains in Heavy Mettle. He ordered Firestrike to bring him the battle suit of New Warriors member Turbo in hopes of proving himself to his father and the other crime bosses of New York. The New Warriors defeated Joseph's group and Firestrike is currently in the Witness Protection Program in exchange for his testimony against Joseph Manfredi.


=== Heavy Mettle version ===
A member of Joseph Manfredi's group Heavy Mettle also goes by the name of Blackwing.During the Dark Reign storyline, this Blackwing is shown as a new member of Norman Osborn's Shadow Initiative. She was later injured during the attempt to retake 42, the Negative Zone Prison, from Blastaar's forces. She was killed in action.


=== Barnell Bohusk ===


== Powers and abilities ==
The first Blackwing is an expert trainer of bats, with which he has a highly developed empathic rapport. He has a number of specially mutated bats bred for abnormal strength, size, and intelligence. Blackwing wears a costume consisting of synthetic stretch fabric over chain mail body armor. Devices in his costume give him the power of flight for short distances, via directed motion hovering. Blackwing is also a skilled marksman.
The second Blackwing wears an armored suit that has wings enabling her to fly.


== In other media ==
A 1940s version of Joseph Manfredi appears in Agent Carter portrayed by Ken Marino. This version is the mob leader of the Los Angeles Maggia branch. He is also an old acquaintance of Howard Stark and was once in a relationship with Whitney Frost. He first appears in the episode "The Atomic Job" where he is shown dining at a restaurant when Whitney and Calvin Chadwick visit him. While making a deal with Senator Chadwick, Joseph reveals a violent side when he believes one of his men was looking at Whitney inappropriately. In the episode "Monsters", Joseph's men provide security for Whitney's house as she tells him and Vernon Masters her next plan. Joseph accompanies Whitney to Stark's mansion where they successfully capture Jason Wilkes and escapes after Whitney shoots Ana Jarvis in the stomach. In the episode "The Edge of Mystery", Peggy Carter and Daniel Sousa attempt to make a deal with Joseph, Wilkes in exchange for uranium rods. They trick him and Whitney, but they get Wilkes back who provides them with the real uranium rods. Afterwards, Peggy and Edwin Jarvis are captured by Joseph's men. In the episode "A Little Song and Dance", Whitney finds that Peggy and Edwin have escaped and orders Joseph to shoot the driver that discovered this. Joseph then takes Whitney and Jason to an abandoned sanitation facility in an attempt to extract the extra Zero Matter. In the episode "Hollywood Ending", Joseph is convinced by his mother to make a deal with Peggy, Stark and their friends to stop Whitney. After Whitney was defeated with her insanity committing her to an asylum, Joseph was seen visiting Whitney.


== References ==


== External links ==
Blackwing (Joseph Manfredi) at Marvel.com
Blackwing (Joseph Manfredi) at Comic Vine
Blackwing II at Marvel.com