Captain Compass

Captain Compass is a character in the DC Comics universe first appearing in 1948 in an issue of Star Spangled Comics, as a replacement for the original Robotman strip.As a "naval detective", Captain Compass's early stories were primarily genre tales of detection, but in later stories an element of the supernatural came to be included. His design was created by artist Jimmy Thompson, though the writer who originally created him is unknown.


== Fictional biography ==
A former private detective, Mark Compass is hired by the "Penny Steamship lines" shipping company as a troubleshooter. In his early appearances his adventures take places aboard the fictional "SS Nautilus", but later stories have Compass venturing to other settings. At various points in his career, he's depicted as being employed in different (generally naval) contexts; for example, in one strip he's demoted to steamship captain. He fights criminals, pirates and people who live on lost islands.


== Publication history ==
Star Spangled Comics #83-130 (August 1948 - July 1952)
World's Finest Comics #63 (March/April 1953)
Detective Comics #203-224 (January 1954 - October 1955)
Detective Comics #500 (March 1981)Early stories in Star Spangled Comics are almost exclusively standard genre tales of detection on the high seas. In later issues of that series, an element of the supernatural is introduced. This first occurs in Star Spangled Comics #96, Captain Compass and his ship sail through a whirlpool to another dimension (or possibly time-travel). Other adventures include conflicts with mechanical whales and prehistoric dinosaurs. Though created by Jimmy Thompson, the regular penciller on these Compass strips was Paul Norris.When Star Spangled Comics switched formats, the Captain Compass strip was replaced by a Doctor Thirteen strip, though Compass reappears in World's Finest Comics the next year. After this, his strip switches to Detective Comics, where it remains until the end of Captain Compass's history as a distinct strip. The last Captain Compass strip is in Detective Comics #224 (October 1955). After this, Compass's slot in the magazine was taken by the introduction of new character Martian Manhunter.


== Modern appearances ==
Compass appeared alongside the Martian Manhunter when J'onn J'onnz signed onto his ship to investigate the murder of a sea captain's daughter. Compass also aided the Justice League after Green Arrow decided to depart to battle his personal demons.
Captain Compass appeared (rarely) in several subsequent issues of Detective Comics, including #500 (March 1981) where he joined forces with other detective characters such as Slam Bradley and the Human Target to solve one last case. After this issue, he appears in a DC Comics reprint set Best of DC Digest in 1982, and then possibly in an unverified cameo in Swamp Thing #46 (March 1986). He has not been depicted in any published comic since that time.  His grandson Martin Compass, a podcaster, appears in Detective Comics #1027 (November 2020).


== External links ==
Captain Compass at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)


== References ==