Devilance

Devilance the Pursuer is a fictional extraterrestrial hunter in the DC Comics universe.


== Publication history ==
Devilance first appeared in Forever People #11 (August 1972) and was created by Jack Kirby.


== Fictional character biography ==
Devilance the Pursuer was once one of the most respected minions of Darkseid, lord of Apokolips, as the hunter who captured and brought back his prey to his master for many years. Devilance was tapped to track and destroy Darkseid's hated rivals, the Forever People. When he found them on an island in the Pacific Ocean, the Forever People switched places with the Infinity Man. Devilance and Infinity Man engaged in a terrible battle that destroyed the small island they were fighting on. Both of them appeared atomized and were presumed dead, although later Infinity Man returned to assist the Forever People again. Devilance was not seen for years.Devilance appears in DC's weekly comic series 52, where he is substantially larger than he was portrayed in the past. He is on a remote alien planet where Starfire, Adam Strange and Animal Man are stranded. It is revealed that Devilance has captured Starfire. Adam Strange and Animal Man search for her but fall victim to his traps and are also captured.Three days and two nights by in-story time, Devilance seems to believe the trio saw something only the gods (such as himself) were meant to. Thus, being "The God of the Pursuit", Devilance took it upon himself to catch them. The team manage to burn Devilance's face and escape his clutches. They also steal his lance in hopes of using it as a power source for their space cruiser. Devilance is last seen bound by the very vines that once held his captives. It is also of note that, as Starfire stated during her escape, the whole planet they are on seems to be a trap set by Devilance himself.He catches up with their spaceship only to be killed by Lobo.


== Powers and abilities ==
Devilance the Pursuer has superhuman strength and a high degree of immunity to physical injury. Possibly much of his strength and resistance to injury is due to his ability to increase his own physical density. Devilance also has many undefined powers that enable his body to adjust to and undo the effects of various kinds of weaponry or super powers used against him. For example, his body can adjust to extreme temperatures.


=== Equipment ===
Devilance's principal weapon is his lance, which serves many functions. It can fire powerful energy blasts. It enables Devilance to fly by holding onto it. It contains circuitry enabling him to track down his victims. Other circuitry causes his lance to return to him if he is separated from it. Devilance can cause his lance's blade to glow with destructive energy. He can also mentally command the lance to leap onto an adversary and tightly coil itself about him.


== References ==


== External links ==
Devilance at DC Comics Wiki
Devilance at the Unofficial Guide to the DC Universe