Mirror Master

Mirror Master is the name of several fictional supervillains appearing in comic books published by DC Comics. He is a recurring foe of the Flash with considerable technical expertise and skills involving the use of mirrors. Three individuals have donned the guise of Mirror Master (with a couple being members of the Rogues at different times). In 2009, Mirror Master was ranked as IGN's 79th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.The Sam Scudder version of Mirror Master has been portrayed in live-action by David Cassidy in the 1990 The Flash series and by Grey Damon in the 2014 The Flash series, while Efrat Dor portrays a gender-swapped version of the Evan McCulloch version of Mirror Master renamed Eva in the 2014 The Flash series.


== Publication history ==
The Sam Scudder version of Mirror Master first appears in The Flash #105 and was created by John Broome and Carmine Infantino.The Evan McCulloch version of Mirror Master first appears in Animal Man #8 and was created by Grant Morrison and Chas Truog.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Sam Scudder ===

Samuel Joseph Scudder is a simple convict, but has the goal to learn how to get inside the reflection of a mirror. Stumbling into a hall of mirrors, he experiments and discovers a way to get in his own reflection. He uses this power to become the criminal Mirror Master, and is a frequent foe of the Flash. Scudder dies around the same time as Barry Allen, alongside the Icicle during the Crisis on Infinite Earths. Later, Captain Boomerang briefly assumes Scudder's identity, becoming the second Mirror Master. He uses this as an alternate identity with which to commit crimes, thus not alerting his teammates in the Suicide Squad to his extracurricular activities. Pre-Crisis, he studies mirrors after someone's reflection is held inside a mirror he was working on in the prison workshop. He then learns how to create creatures of light.
In the Blackest Night crossover event, Sam Scudder is reanimated as an undead Black Lantern during the Blackest Night and is preparing an attack on the Rogues with the other deceased members, who are also reanimated.The Rogues visit Sam Scudder's old hideout and unveil a giant mirror with the words In Case of Flash: Break Glass. It has been shown in several past incidents that something lives in the mirror universe that is deadly. The Rogues learn that the giant mirror is actually a slow-acting poison.In The New 52, a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe, Sam Scudder is the current Mirror Master. It is revealed that a year prior he, Captain Cold, Heat Wave and Weather Wizard underwent a procedure at an unknown facility that would merge them with their weapons, giving them superpowers. The procedure went awry, causing an explosion at the facility. Golden Glider, who was also at the facility, was caught in the explosion. The five were given superpowers but each in a twisted manner. Heat Wave gains pyrokinesis but at the cost of his body being burned, Weather Wizard becomes emotionally tied to his weather wand causing constant depression, Sam would be forever trapped in Mirror World, and Golden Glider becomes an astral projection of herself. It is implied that Sam is in a romantic relationship with her. The Rogues blame Captain Cold for this and have turned against him because of it.


=== Evan McCulloch ===

Scottish mercenary Evan McCulloch is left as a baby on the doorstep of an orphanage run by a Mrs. McCulloch, with nothing but his first name and a photograph of his parents. He grows up fairly normal and around age 8, Evan is sexually assaulted by an older boy. Evan, in self-defense, drowns the boy in a creek. Never caught, Evan leaves the orphanage at 16 with his parents' photograph.
He settles in Glasgow, taking up a life that leads to crime and eventually takes up employment as an assassin. He becomes one of the most renowned mercenaries in the United Kingdom.
One day, he has two hits scheduled, and due to an eye injury is barely able to make out his second target. After firing his shot, he recognizes the target as his father. At the funeral, Evan sees his mother.
Over the next few days, he tries to work up the courage to see her, but visits her too late, discovering that she has committed suicide. Stricken with grief at the loss of both parents, Evan decides to turn himself in but is instead picked up by a consortium of U.S. government and big business interests, who offer him the costume and weapons of the original Mirror Master in exchange for his services.His first assignment is to scare Animal Man into abandoning his animal-rights stance, a mission he fails thanks to the hero's wife. After he is fired and replaced for refusing to actually kill Animal Man's wife and children, McCulloch helps Animal Man track and fight the same men who gave McCulloch his weapons, but his heroism is short-lived. He continued to work as a criminal and a supervillain-for-hire. On occasion, he has also worked out of costume as a mercenary in Britain.He moves to Keystone City and comes into conflict with Wally West, now the third Flash. He discovers a "Mirror Dimension" which enables him to travel through any reflective surface. During the events of Underworld Unleashed, the Rogues accept him as Scudder's successor. After being betrayed by Neron, McCulloch and four of the other Rogues die and go to Hell, only to return after a confrontation between Neron and the Flash. For a brief time, McCulloch is a member of Lex Luthor's initial Injustice Gang and fights the Justice League, but abandons the team when Batman offers to pay him twice what Luthor was offering.
During a brief team-up with Captain Cold, Mirror Master was contacted by Brother Grimm about a plan to permanently get rid of the Flash, but when Grimm betrayed Cold and McCulloch by trapping them in a pocket mirror universe in Linda Park's diamond ring, they joined forces with Wally to escape this dimension and confront Grimm's theft of Keystone City, Wally even briefly lending speed to the two Rogues so that they could ensure that Keystone's citizens were all in the city when it returned to Earth while Wally fought Grimm.
He works with Blacksmith in her takeover of Keystone and Central City. When her plan fails, he joins Captain Cold's gang and battles a cocaine addiction. He seems to sober up since the death of Captain Boomerang.
McCulloch joins Alexander Luthor's Secret Society after the Rogue War. He, Captain Boomerang and Captain Cold battle the Outsiders before Infinite Crisis. In Infinite Crisis #7, they all participate in the Battle of Metropolis, being defeated by the Martian Manhunter.
One Year Later, Evan is a member of the new Suicide Squad, using cocaine. He is seen taking incriminating photos of Sasha Bordeaux and Michael Holt together. The Rogues are then persuaded by Inertia, an enemy of Bart Allen, the Flash IV, to kill the Flash. This makes all the Rogues angry for being tricked when they find out they murdered a kid.Mirror Master is one of the exiled villains in the Salvation Run along with fellow Rogues: Captain Cold, Heat Wave, Weather Wizard, and Abra Kadabra.
After the villains escape, he joins Libra's Secret Society of Super Villains.
Evan teams with Doctor Light to recover Metron's chair, and are challenged by, but defeat, the League of Titans, a Teen Titans spin-off team. Evan persuades the rapist Dr. Light not to sexually assault the unconscious heroines. Evan and the rest of the Rogues reject Libra's offer, wanting to stay out of the game, and take their revenge on Inertia.Mirror Master and the Rogues visit his predecessor, Sam Scudder's old hideout and unveil a giant mirror with the words In Case of Flash: Break Glass written on it. Afterward, McCulloch is still on the run with the Rogues.


== Powers and abilities ==
Mirror Master uses mirrors that produce fantastic effects such as hypnotism, invisibility, holograms, physical transformations, communications and travel into other dimensions (other parallel universes or planes of existence).
Evan McCulloch uses a laser pistol.


== Other versions ==


=== Tangent Mirror Master ===
A Mirror Master featured in Tangent: Superman's Reign #1, has a body made of a glass-like substance, and was able to create portals to other worlds in the Multiverse.


=== League Busters Mirror Master ===
A fourth Mirror Master who wears a purple outfit briefly appeared as a member of the "League-Busters" in Justice League International v2, #65 (Jun 1994).


=== New Rogues ===
The New Rogues version of Mirror Master is Mirror Man, an unknown man who possesses Mirrors Stolen. He is not to be confused with the Batman villain of the same name.


=== Flashpoint ===
In the alternate timeline of the Flashpoint event, Evan McCulloch is imprisoned in the mirrors in a place called the Mirrorverse. It is mostly assumed Captain Cold killed him, and he cannot leave the Mirrorverse or he will die. Anyone else entering the Mirrorverse will die also. Mirror Master assembles the Rogues members Weather Wizard, Tar Pit, and Fallout. Mirror Master then escapes from Iron Heights and pursues revenge against Captain Cold for imprisoning him. Captain Cold kills the Rogues members and then enters Mirror Master's Mirrorverse without warning. Mirror Master attempts to kill him, but Captain Cold pushes him out of the Mirrorverse and he dies.


=== 25th Century Mirror Master ===
A futuristic version Mirror Monarch is a heroic Mirror Master as part of the 25th Century cops known as The Renegades from Professor Zoom's future, but was found dead by Barry Allen in public by a shadowy figure in a Flash suit. The Monarch's allies, from a futuristic, heroic incarnation of the Rogues, arrest Barry. However, after witnessing Barry's selfless heroism when their attempt to arrest him is interrupted by Captain Boomerang, the future version of the Top explains that Barry will kill Mirror Monarch because he mistook him for Mirror Master; the 'In Case of Flash' mirror will release the powerful demons known as the Mirror Lords, one of which will possess Iris, with Barry being forced to kill Mirror Master in order to send the demons back into the mirror or face Iris being permanently possessed by the Mirror Lord, only to kill Mirror Monarch by accident. When the Flash enters the gateway of unveil a giant mirror, but there are no demons or Mirror Lords only for it to show him a vision of his mother and he is caught by the Renegades. The Flash learns that Top is actually framing him for a crime he committed. The Flash is taken to a 25th-century courtroom and tells them, despite the historical evidence that the Mirror Lords did not escape and travels back to the 21st century to fight the Top. The Top reveals that he killed Mirror Monarch prevent the Flash from finding out that the Top's ancestor was the real murderer case which would cost him his job. The Renegades then take the Top back to the 25th century to be tried and the Flash finds the real murderer.


=== Injustice: Gods Among Us ===
Mirror Master appears in Injustice: Gods Among Us comic, leading a team hired by the US government through several shell companies to kidnap Superman's parents, Jonathan and Martha Kent, from their home in Smallville. Mirror Master kicks down the door to their bedroom, ordering them down on the floor. When they do not act fast enough, he shoves Martha down, prompting Jonathan to punch him despite McCulloch's warning. Jonathan is restrained on Mirror Master's orders and then smacked upside the head by Mirror Master's rifle, knocking him out. McCulloch orders his men to torch the house before he and his men retreat into his mirror dimension with the Kents in tow. When Superman arrives at his parents burning house Mirror Master greets him through a mirror, mocking Superman, unfazed by his threats. He tells Superman that he will never see his parents again but that they are safe, despite the fact Scudder had to rough up Superman's father. In a rage, Superman smashes the mirror, but Mirror Master is unaffected. He goes on, telling Superman "Simple message: Stop what you're doing." He advises Superman to stay out of government business and that if he persists, they will start "Sending little pieces of one of them. Maybe we'll even let you choose which one." Mirror Master is the subject of a Justice League manhunt in Central City, with several of the Flash's Rogues Gallery being interrogated by the League for McCulloch's location. It is ultimately Captain Cold who reveals where Mirror Master is: a bar in Keystone City. The Flash and Wonder Woman crash the bar and make for McCulloch sitting at the bar, but it is revealed that it is not Mirror Master but a projection from the nearby wall mirror. Mirror Master mocks Flash, but the Speedster has the last laugh when Raven appears behind McCulloch and forces him out halfway from the mirror. Wonder Woman forces the location of Superman's parents out of Mirror Master with her Lasso of Truth and the threat of smashing the mirror he is only halfway out of. Mirror Master quickly reveals that the Kents are in Bolivia. Wonder Woman then orders Mirror Master to strip himself of his weapons so they can use his tech to free the Kents. Though he is not seen after this, he is most likely incarcerated. He then reappears in Year Five, where he is one of the thousands of villains released from Superman's prison by Plastic Man. He is next seen along his fellow Rogues as their new leader, due to Captain Cold going into hiding, as they meet with Batman, who offers them to help him take down Superman's Regime, due to the Rogues' code against killing, which Batman respects. Mirror Master, along with Weather Wizard, Heat Wave, and Golden Glider, attack several Regime buildings in a coordinated attack around the world. They then attack a Regime base in Central City, evacuating the soldiers first before they set to blow it up. Bizarro though shows up and attacks them. During the fight, Scudder gets knocked unconscious, leaving Golden Glider to try to figure out how to use his belt to escape while Heat Wave and Weather Wizard distract Bizarro. But, when Weather Wizard calls Bizarro a fake, an angry Bizarro lashes out and incinerates him and Heat Wave with his heat vision. Golden Glider, though, manages to escape through a mirror portal with Scudder and they report about what happened to Batman as they mourn Rory and Mardon. They are then seen holding a memorial for Rory and Mardon at a bar, where it is revealed that Scudder and Glider are in a relationship as they share a kiss. The Flash then visits the bar to pay his respects, but Scudder and Glider angrily berate him, thinking he has come to brag and turn them in, but Flash reveals that he has always respected the Rogues and came by to pay his respects. He also agrees to not turn them in as he, Scudder, and Glider share a beer together.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===


==== Live-action ====

The Sam Scudder version of Mirror Master appeared in The Flash 1990 TV series, portrayed by David Cassidy. This version is a criminal who uses holograms projected by small mirrored disks to commit his heists. In the episode "Done with Mirrors", he steals a crystal from S.T.A.R. Labs and attempts to kill his ex-partner Stasia Masters, a high school girlfriend of Barry Allen. The Flash, with help from Tina McGee, uses a high-powered spotlight to blind Scudder and drown out his illusions, allowing the Flash to capture him.Several variations of Mirror Master appear in The Flash 2014 TV series.
Sam Scudder appears in the third season, portrayed by Grey Damon. He is a metahuman with the ability to travel through reflective surfaces (similar to the New 52 version) as well as trap people inside such objects after being trapped in a mirror for three years. He briefly traps Barry Allen in a window during a chase, but the speedster's allies are able to free Barry by slowing down the molecules of the 'wormhole' Scudder creates in the mirrors so that Barry can vibrate through it. Barry subsequently isolates Scudder by trapping him in a circle of mirrors; allowing Barry to knock him out until he can be moved to an Iron Heights cell with no reflective surfaces.
A company called McCulloch Technologies appears in the fifth season that developed a mirror gun which Team Flash uses to destroy Cicada's dagger. A female version of Evan McCulloch named Eva McCulloch appears as a series regular in the sixth season's second half, portrayed by Efrat Dor. A quantum engineer, co-founder of McCulloch Technologies, and wife of its CEO Joseph Carver, she was also trapped inside a mirror like Scudder, though she was trapped for six years. After learning Carver stole her tech and used it to create the terrorist organization Black Hole, McCulloch developed and honed her abilities over the years to get revenge. During her sixth year in the mirrorverse, she trapped several key figures with her and used mirror duplicates of them as her proxies to procure technology so she could eventually escape the mirrorverse. Once she did, she used her ability to travel through reflective surfaces and manipulate mirror shards to kill Carver and retake her company.


==== Animation ====
Mirror Master appeared in Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show, voiced by Casey Kasem. The Flash doesn't appear in this episode. In the episode "Reflections in Crime", Mirror Master sets about trapping the Super Friends inside mirrors called the sixth dimension. The Super Friends managed to escape and trap Mirror Master in a House of Mirrors where he was apprehended upon being unable to find his way out.
An amalgamated version of Mirror Master appears in the Justice League animated series and Justice League Unlimited, voiced by Alexis Denisof. In the episode "Eclipsed", an actor hired to play him is seen as part of the Flash's Lightspeed energy bar commercial. The actual version is an amalgamation of Sam Scudder and Evan McCulloch; he is clearly American like Scudder as well as being a simple criminal and not a hitman but his mirror abilities are tilted more towards McCulloch's enhanced, almost supernatural skills like a Mirror Dimension. In the episode "Flash and Substance", he seemed to act as the Rogues' de facto leader, convincing the others to exact revenge upon the Flash for repeatedly thwarting their plots and bringing them to jail, joining forces with Captain Boomerang, Captain Cold, and Trickster. It was also mentioned by Captain Boomerang that the Flash made Mirror Master eat his own Laser-Kaleidoscope, though Mirror Master dismissed this as being false saying "That's a rumor! A complete exaggeration. Besides, it was a laser pistol". The Rogues later demolish the newly opened Flash Museum upon entering through Linda Park's compact mirror. In his battle with Flash, Batman, and Orion, Mirror Master ended up trapped in the broken shards of the mirror after Batman's Batarang is thrown at one of the mirrors that Mirror Master used. Forensics were shown collecting the pieces of the mirror. Mirror Master had a cameo as a member of the Secret Society in the episode "The Great Brain Robbery".
The Sam Scudder version of Mirror Master appeared in the fifth season of The Batman animated series, voiced by and modeled after John Larroquette. This version is a brilliant but mad optical physicist and is said to be the most powerful of the Flash's foes. In "A Mirror Darkly", he employed mirror versions of Batman, Flash, and Robin to steal components for his Mirror Portal Ray. He used it to trap Gotham's citizens in any reflective surface--mirrors, windows, even a silver serving tray. On a side note, he has a female assistant named Smoke (voiced by Amanda Anka). In "Lost Heroes", he fights Flash and Green Arrow in a circus fun house only for Green Arrow to cut off his reflection by a slime-emitting arrow.The Evan McCulloch version of Mirror Master appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voiced by Tom Kenny. He and Captain Cold are mentioned in "The Golden Age of Justice" as having been recently defeated by Batman. Mirror Master makes a non-speaking cameo in "Requiem for a Scarlet Speedster" where he traps Batman and Barry Allen in a trap only for Batman to cut him and Allen out of the trap and then for Flash to redirect a beam back to Mirror Master, supposedly knocking him out. In the anthology-only episode "Four Star Spectacular!" in the vignette "Double Trouble", Mirror Master traps the Flash using a mirror maze and attacks him with a horde of mirror duplicates. Flash eventually realizes which of the images is the one real Mirror Master and knocks him out.Mirror Master appears in the Robot Chicken DC Comics Special, voiced by Breckin Meyer. He appears as a member of the Legion of Doom. In one segment, he and the Riddler pressure Sinestro to shave off his mustache in the bathroom, which leads to Sinestro gushing blood from his upper lip. Mirror Master escapes in a mirror in horror. He next appears in the final segment where he participates in the battle between the Justice League and the Legion of Doom.


=== Film ===
The Sam Scudder version of Mirror Master appears as an antagonist in Justice League: Doom with Alexis Denisof reprising his role from the Justice League animated series. He is recruited into Vandal Savage's Legion of Doom before the film's events begin. He sneaks into the Batcave using the Batmobile's rear view mirror and steals Batman's contingency plans from the Batcomputer. He is chosen by Savage to kill The Flash. Mirror Master gets Flash's attention by robbing a moving train and taking everyone aboard hostage. Flash manages to destroy all of his holograms, but Mirror Master manages to plant a bomb through Flash's wrist while disabling a bomb inside a glass box containing an old woman (actually another hologram). The bomb would go off in 60 seconds should Flash do nothing, try to take it off, and, should he run, if he decelerates. Flash eventually escapes by vibrating molecules though an iceberg, leaving the bomb trapped in the iceberg before it explodes. He toasts Savage at their victory celebration and signs on for his true, genocidal plan. When the Justice League storms the Hall of Doom, he fight The Flash by taking the battle outside and forcing Flash to fight a multitude of solid holograms and new holograms that seem to be made of glass. Eventually Flash takes out all of his holograms and knocks out Mirror Master in one punch.Mirror Master appears in Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox in a non-speaking role. In the film's beginning, he and the Rogues are attacking the Flash, but Professor Zoom betrays the Rogues and attaches bombs to the Rogues which cannot be removed. When the Justice League arrive and manage to dispose the bombs, Green Lantern takes Mirror Master to space's upper limits where Green Lantern's ring is shielding while Batman uses a laser cutter to remove the bomb which later drops in space from the bomb radius, saving Mirror Master's life. His appearance is notable because his physical body is noticeably bulkier than previous animated incarnations; it is unknown whether this is due to muscle, bone structure, or body fat.In Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths, an alternate version of Lex Luthor mentions Mirror Master being head of the police.


=== Video games ===
The Evan McCulloch incarnation of Mirror Master appears in DC Universe Online, voiced by Brandon Young.Mirror Master makes a cameo appearance in Injustice: Gods Among Us. In Raven's ending, Mirror Master was seen holding Superman's parents hostage.Mirror Master is mentioned in Injustice 2 by Cheetah and Captain Cold, the latter of whom betrayed Mirror Master despite Mirror Master having "leverage" on Superman. It is unrevealed whether Mirror Master is dead or simply imprisoned.The Evan McCulloch version of Mirror Master appears as a playable character in Lego DC Super-Villains, voiced by Sam Heughan.


=== Music ===
There is a reference to Mirror Master in the Ookla the Mok song "Stranger In The Mirror". He is referred to in the song lyrics as "the villain in issue 104 of The Flash," though Mirror Master actually debuted in issue 105.


=== Miscellaneous ===
Mirror Master appeared in issue #23 of the Super Friends spin-off comic book.Mirror Master appeared in issue #12 of the Justice League Unlimited spin-off comic book.Mirror Master appeared in issue #16 of the Batman: The Brave and The Bold comic book.


== References ==


== External links ==
Arrowverse entry for Mirror Master I
Arrowverse entry for Mirror Master II
Alan Kistler's Profile On: THE FLASH - A detailed analysis of the history of the Flash by comic book historian Alan Kistler. Covers information all the way from Jay Garrick to Barry Allen to today, as well as discussions on the various villains and Rogues who fought the Flash. Various art scans.