Sofia Constantinas

Sofia Constantinas was a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. She appeared in the pre-Crisis adventures of Wonder Woman as a reformed Greek terrorist who moved to Paradise Island for Amazon training, where she learned the secrets of Wonder Woman's missing memories.


== Fictional character history ==
Sofia was a member of a cell of Greek terrorists led by Nikos Aegeus.  When Aegeus was empowered by Bellerophon to try to locate and destroy Paradise Island (and use its Purple Healing Ray to restore Bellerophon's sight), the terrorists plotted to kidnap Steve Trevor and force him to divulge the location of Paradise Island.
When Steve broke away from his captors, Sofia chased him into a cavern where they discovered the bones of Artemis, the first Wonder Woman, as well as a scepter belonging to the goddess Athena.  Athena appeared in a vision to Sofia, entreating her to see through Aegeus' power-mad ways.  In the crucial battle between Wonder Woman, Bellerophon, Aegeus, Steve, and the terrorists, Sofia had a change of heart and turned the tables on Aegeus.  She then requested sanctuary on Paradise Island.
While living among the Amazons and learning their ways, the still-distrustful and defiant Sofia learned that Queen Hippolyta was withholding memory tapes of Wonder Woman's experiences with the first incarnations of Steve Trevor.  Shocked at what seemed to her yet another hypocrisy, she stole the tapes and fled Paradise Island to inform Wonder Woman of Hippolyta's deception.  Although temporarily delayed by Dr. Cyber, who was impersonating Diana Prince, Sofia eventually led Wonder Woman, Steve, and the love-god Eros to learn of the previous lives of Steve Trevor.
During the final battle with the mad god Eros, Sofia was moved to see the compassion and community of the Amazon nation as it bound together to fight the god and save their home.  When Wonder Woman renounced Paradise Island, Sofia embraced it, and pledged to rededicate herself to Amazon ideals.
During the rebuilding phase, however, several Amazons were troubled by Hippolyta's depression over Diana's rejection and her growing closeness to the outsider Sofia.  An attempted coup was thwarted, however, when the goddess Kore enlisted the Amazon nation to save Olympus from the coming Crisis on Infinite Earths.
Sofia has not been seen in any published post-Crisis adventures.


== See also ==
List of Wonder Woman supporting characters


== References ==