Nuclear Family (comics)

The Nuclear Family is the name of a group of supervillains in DC Comics. Created by Jim Aparo and Mike W. Barr for the first issue of Outsiders, they are androids designed by a dying nuclear scientist to resemble himself and his deceased family.
The Nuclear Family made their first live adaptation in the DC Universe series' first season of Titans, where they were portrayed by Jeff Clarke, Melody Johnson, Jeni Ross, Logan Thompson, and Zach Smadu. 


== Publication history ==
The Nuclear Family first appeared in Outsiders #1 and were created by Jim Aparo and Mike W. Barr.


== Fictional team history ==
An early nuclear science researcher named Dr. Eric Shanner made some careless mistakes during his research which ended up exposing him and his family to dangerous levels of radiation. His family died and he was rendered ill with radiation poisoning. Afterward, Dr. Shanner made a vow to teach the world about the dangers of radiation. His began years later by building six androids resembling a younger version of his family, including himself. Each android was equipped with powers matching the various effects of nuclear weapons. Dr. Shanner then sent them to destroy the city of Los Angeles where they managed to damage the Esperanza Canyon Nuclear Power Plant during its opening day. When the Nuclear Family returned the next day to destroy the nuclear power plant, they ran afoul of the Outsiders but managed to defeat them. After briefly holding Looker captive and sedated, they fought the Outsiders again where they managed to destroy the Nuclear Family while Dr. Shanner expired from his nuclear radiation illness.During the Infinite Crisis storyline, the Nuclear Family has been rebuilt and are seen as member of Alexander Luthor Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains. They were seen taking part in the Battle of Blüdhaven.


== Members ==
The Nuclear Family have different powers and all have an immunity to radiation. The Nuclear Family consists of:

Dad - The patriarch of the Nuclear Family. He can fly and emit immense amounts of radiation from his body.
Mom - The matriarch of the Nuclear Family. She can fly and project an electromagnetic pulse which can kill and disable all electronic equipment around her.
Biff - The oldest son of the Nuclear Family. He can fly and emit a thermal pulse that gives off the same heat found in a nuclear explosion.
Sis - The only daughter of the Nuclear Family. She can fly and create a blast wave that can take down entire buildings.
Brat - The youngest son of the Nuclear Family. He can fly and transform himself into radioactive fallout.
Dog - The pet of the Nuclear Family. It can fly and transform itself into radioactive fallout.


== In other media ==
The Nuclear Family appears in the Justice League Action episode "Nuclear Family Values" with Dad voiced by Kevin Shinick, Mom and Brat voiced by Melissa Disney, Biff voiced by Jason J. Lewis, and Sis voiced by Rachel Kimsey while dog sound effects were used for Dog. In this show, the Nuclear Family were originally built by Dr. Eric Shanner during the Cold War to show people the side effects of using nuclear weapons. While the Nuclear Family were programmed to behave like a real family, they were unaware that they were androids. When a nuclear explosion went off, the Nuclear Family were not destroyed and absorbed the blast and its radiation fallout. Upon gaining sentience and nuclear-related powers, the Nuclear Family escaped the test site where they plan to find a place they could call home. They go on a rampage where they plan to destroy a nuclear power plant and run afoul of Firestorm the Nuclear Man. When the Nuclear Family traps Firestorm in the main reactor in order to start a chain reaction, Martin Stein advises Firestorm to have one of the Nuclear Family members do a supercharge to the fuel rod pool. Turning a floatie into the squirrel floatie, Firestorm tricks Dog into getting in so that it can do a supercharge to the fuel rod pool, which was enough to free Firestorm. The Nuclear Family then engage Firestorm in battle, while Mom works to raise the reactor to high temperatures. Firestorm uses the water from the fuel rod pool to restrain the Nuclear Family as Firestorm "hugs it out" with them. It is then shown that Firestorm had placed the Nuclear Family in a smaller replica of a typical family house so that they will not cause any more trouble and damage.
The Nuclear Family appear in Titans with Dad portrayed by Jeff Clarke, Mom portrayed by Melody Johnson, Sis portrayed by Jeni Ross, Biff portrayed by Logan Thompson, and a second patriarch, Nuclear Stepdad, portrayed by Zach Smadu. In the series, they are depicted as humans who were brainwashed by Dr. Adamson to become assassins under Trigon and use a serum to enhance their abilities. Referred to as "The Family", they are activated by Dr. Adamson to track down and capture Rachel Roth, Trigon's daughter. They initially succeed in abducting Rachel after defeating Dick Grayson, Hank Hall, and Dawn Granger in a surprise attack, but Rachel is rescued by Kory Anders, who kills Dad. The Family, now joined by Stepdad, later finds Rachel at a motel where they are defeated and captured following a battle with Dick, Rachel, Kory and Garfield Logan. When Dr. Adamson learns of their capture, they are killed when he detonates planted explosives in their heads. 


== References ==


== External links ==
Nuclear Family at Comic Vine
Nuclear Family at Angelfire