Dark Nemesis

Dark Nemesis is a DC Comics supervillain team.


== Publication history ==
Dark Nemesis first appeared in Teen Titans Vol. 2 #7 and was created by Dan Jurgens.


== Fictional team biography ==
Dark Nemesis is a high-powered group who will work for anyone that will pay them. They first came in conflict with the Teen Titans when they were contracted by the Veil as a way to test the Titans' abilities. After the battle, only Scorcher was the one who evaded capture.Scorcher later orchestrated a prison break. During the breakout, Risk detected a psychic connection with Scorcher alerting them that she was a H'San Natall offspring. She was abandoned by her teammates. Before she can rendezvous with them, she saves the lives of Atom and Risk. Axis also detects Scorcher's link with the H'San Natall race.When Dark Nemesis was under the employ of the Veil again, they killed Scorcher and framed Risk for her murder. Even though the Titans had been discredited, they were able to find evidence to prove Risk's innocence.A mysterious boss later hires the Dark Nemesis to acquire a diet substance named Apex. They gain a new Scorcher as the replacement for the former Scorcher that they killed. Before they could acquire the files on Apex, they were easily taken down by a refocused Titans.During the Infinite Crisis, Blizzard and Vault appeared as members of Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains.


== Membership ==
Axis - The blue-skinned leader of Dark Nemesis. She is a ruthless and cunning psi-warrior who can detect weaknesses and compromises their ability to fight.
Blizzard - A reptilian man who possesses extreme cold-based powers. Not much is known about him except that he was in a special orphanage with Scorcher.
Carom - A speed demon who ricochets off walls at amazing speed.
Scorcher - A H'San Natall/human hybrid who has heat-based powers that are a counterpoint of Blizzard's powers.
Scorcher - She has the same powers as the original Scorcher.
Vault - Axis's lover. Using energy-matter transference, Vault can create individual prisons that cancel out an opponent's power. Even though he is mute, he follows Axis's orders.


== References ==


== External links ==
Dark Nemesis at DC Comics Wiki
Dark Nemesis at Comic Vine
Dark Nemesis at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)