General Wade Eiling

General Wade Eiling, sometimes known as The General, is a villain who appears in comics published by DC Comics.
General Eiling made his live appearance on the first season of The Flash played by Clancy Brown.


== Publication history ==
Wade Eiling first appeared in Captain Atom #1 (March 1987) and was created by Cary Bates and Pat Broderick.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Captain Atom ===
Wade Eiling is a military tactician who blackmails the accused Nathaniel Adam into participating in the atomic experiment that turns Nathaniel into the nuclear being Captain Atom, and causes Adam to disappear for 18 years. This is considered a failure by Eiling and Heinrich Megala, the project's main scientist. They would attempt the experiment again, which ends up with the creation of Major Force.
During the 18 years in which Adam is gone, Eiling marries Adam's wife and acts as father to his two children. Eiling also manipulates Captain Atom into serving the military. His first attempts, a chance for Adam to view his children in exchange for retrieving a lost submarine, falls apart in issue #3 of the 1980s Captain Atom series. This embarrasses Eiling in front of his superiors. The same issue details the cover story for Captain Atom that Eiling helps create, one that is, in his words, "a scenario just far-fetched and hokey enough to sound authentic". His continuing conflicts with the title character were a major focus of the 1980s Captain Atom series. Eiling would also form an intensely adversarial relationship with Megala.


=== Hacker Files ===
General Wade Eiling makes a cameo appearance in SoftWar, the very first story arc of 1993 maxi-series The Hacker Files.


=== JLA ===
In JLA #24 after being diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor, Eiling sends a military team to salvage the indestructible body of the second Shaggy Man from the Pacific Ocean where he has its body shaved. Green Lantern and Aquaman attempt to stop the Corps from retrieving the body, but their efforts are thwarted.The General returns to his base of operations, Threshold. From there he orchestrates a military assault on the JLA. Answering a call for help in Phoenix, Arizona, the Justice League are attacked by American military forces. Spearheading the offensive is a new superhero team called the Ultramarine Corps. Recruited and genetically enhanced by Eiling's lab team, The Ultramarines already exhibit signs of terminal illness. Meanwhile, Batman, the Huntress and Plastic Man track Eiling to Threshold, where they discover that the General transferred his brain patterns into the indestructible body of the Shaggy Man.
The JLA battle the military and the Corps until JLA #26 (Feb. 1999). Eiling's forces consider mutiny as doubts against attacking the League come to a head. Superman, whose super-senses have diagnosed the Ultramarine's disease, persuades the Ultramarine Corps that Eiling has used and betrayed them. The Corps members, who volunteered for service in good faith, switch sides and speed with the JLA toward Threshold.Even against the combined might of the JLA and the Ultramarines, the General is unstoppable. Batman notices that Eiling's tactical edge and focus are diminished in his new artificial form. Working together, the team fights the monster onto a bulk-matter teleport platform. Eiling is transported to 433 Eros, a 'rocky needle', six miles in length, at the heart of the Sol system's asteroid belt.


=== The Injustice Gang ===
He stays there for several months until Queen Bee recruits him into Lex Luthor's new Injustice Gang. Eiling battles against the Justice League a second time as part of a coordinated attack, this time utilizing a large-scale machine gun. He declares that the League was wrong to banish him to the asteroid with no trial. The battle moves to one of the White Martian warships that is currently inside the Phantom Zone. There, Eiling states his plan to utilize the weapons of mass destruction on Earth itself. Orion's war dog Sturmer participates in a trick against Eiling. The canine tackles the man through a ship's airlock, into the Phantom Zone. This naturally distresses Superman but Orion assures him that Sturmer has willingly made this choice.


=== Back as a threat ===
Having somehow escaped, he has since appeared in the JSA comics fighting Hal Jordan. He is one of the hundreds of villains recruited into the Society. He is a participant in the Battle of Metropolis, the first step of the Society's war on the heroes. This effort fails. Later, he is recruited into the Suicide Squad, where his regenerative powers are significantly diminished. He betrays the team to their intended target. Rick Flag detonates a bomb implanted in Eiling's head, ending the threat. His head and brain eventually regenerate, but results in some amnesia. Eiling continues to serve as a Squad member through Salvation Run. This is the name for a program that exiles supervillains to a distant, Earth-like planet without a trial.


=== The New 52 ===
In September 2011, DC Comics engaged in a line-wide revision of its superhero comics, including their stories and characters' fictional histories, known as The New 52. In the new stories, the character of Captain Atom has a new origin, with General Wade Eiling first appearing in a radiation suit while flanking Captain Atom. General Eiling tells Captain Atom to fall in line as he is a super-weapon that will keep America on the top. When Captain Atom tells them that he will be just another atomic bomb for them, General Eiling attempts to quarantine Captain Atom. While stating that he cannot eat or drink, Captain Atom counters everything that the military throws at him.


== Powers and abilities ==
General Wade Eiling is a military expert.
In the shaved body of a Shaggy Man, Eiling has superhuman strength, durability, speed and endurance as well as a regenerative healing factor.


== Other versions ==


=== JLA/Avengers ===
The General is among the mind-controlled villains defending Krona's stronghold when the heroes assault it in #4. He is defeated by Iron Man and Vision.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===

General Wade Eiling appears in Justice League Unlimited, voiced by J. K. Simmons. Introduced in "Dark Heart", he is a USAF General and a member of Project Cadmus who regards metahumans as a threat to humanity. After the Atom shut down the Dark Heart, Eiling and his soldiers confiscated the device. In "The Doomsday Sanction", he sent a nuclear warhead to kill Doomsday regardless of innocent casualties and compelled Captain Atom to choose between the USAF or the Justice League. When Batman confronts Project Cadmus' leader Amanda Waller, Eiling attempted and failed to defeat him. Following Project Cadmus' disbandment, Eiling was relegated to a "pencil pusher". In the episode "Patriot Act", a displeased Eiling injected himself with Captain Nazi's super-soldier serum and transformed into a monster. He attempts to find Superman, but chooses to fight non-powered Leaguers Green Arrow, Speedy, Shining Knight, Crimson Avenger, Vigilante, Stargirl, and S.T.R.I.P.E. instead. While he soundly defeated the group, a group of civilians stood between him and Shining Knight, at which point Eiling realized he was the only metahuman involved in the fight. Upon leaving, he vowedg to return if the Justice League becomes a threat.
He also appears in issue #5 of spin-off comic of the same name.
General Wade Eiling appears in the Young Justice animated series, voiced by Jeff Bennett. In the episode "Failsafe", a mind-training exercise conducted by Martian Manhunter features Eiling leading the U.S. Army in defending Washington D.C. from an alien invasion. In the episode "Cornered", Eiling leads the military when Despero and L-Ron surround the Hall of Justice with a massive forcefield and attempt to disable it until the Reach Ambassador successfully deactivates it.
General Wade Eiling appears in The Flash, portrayed by Clancy Brown. A two-star U.S. Army general, he worked with S.T.A.R. Labs five years prior to develop a means of create psychic interrogators until the latter learned he was abusing the program's test subject Grodd and broke ties with him. Introduced in the episode "Plastique", Eiling leads a task force to capture Bette Sans Souci for her abilities, only to shoot her after he attacks him. Eiling returns in the episodes "The Nuclear Man" and "Fallout" to harness Firestorm's abilities, but is abducted by Eobard Thawne and Grodd. In the episode "Grodd Lives", the titular gorilla uses his psionic powers to brainwash Eiling and force him to rob armored cars until the latter is captured by Team Flash and remanded to the S.T.A.R. Labs' pipeline until Grodd is defeated.
A similar villain named General Wade appears in the fifth season of Gotham, portrayed by John Bedford Lloyd. General Wade first comes to Gotham City  in the episode "I Am Bane", where he leads the U.S. Army in their mission to restore order after the No Man's Land event. However, General Wade is then captured by Bane and taken to the laboratory of Hugo Strange, where the Professor corrupts the General by planting a mind-control device in his brain. On orders of Nyssa al Ghul, Wade activates "Special Order 386", an emergency protocol that causes the destruction of the majority of the city. In the episode "They Did What?", Nyssa continues using General Wade as a pawn in her evil plan to utterly destroy Gotham and later orders him to kill himself when her headquarters are invaded by James Gordon.


=== Video games ===
General Wade Eiling (as The General) appears in the Nintendo DS version of Justice League Heroes.


== References ==


== External links ==
General Wade Eiling at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)