Jillian Pearlman

Captain Jillian "Cowgirl" Pearlman, USAF, is a fictional character in the DC Comics Universe. She is a rival to Carol Ferris for the romantic affections of Hal Jordan. Pearlman's original design in the comics was based on actress Kirsten Dunst.


== Publication history ==
Created by Geoff Johns, Jillian Pearlman first appeared in Green Lantern vol. 4, #1 in 2005.


== Fictional character biography ==
The fourth child of a Texan rancher, Jillian enlisted in the United States Air Force after she turned nineteen. Her sharp wit, attitude, and Texan accent earned her the call sign "Cowgirl". Jillian met Hal Jordan's alter-ego, Green Lantern, after he saved her life when the engine of her jet, an X-2020, was failing and later met Jordan face to face at Edwards Air Force Base. Jordan and Jillian felt a romantic attraction to each other, and eventually realize that they have a lot in common.During the lost year, Cowgirl, Hal "Highball" Jordan, and Shane "Rocket-Man" Sellers were sent on an Air Force mission, on which Jordan, per usual, did not wear his Green Lantern ring. During the mission all three of their jets were shot down and the pilots taken as prisoners of war. Jordan filed down his chains in an attempt to escape the camp, finally doing so when his captors attempted to torture Cowgirl in front of him to get him to reveal secrets, since torturing Jordan himself wasn't working. Cowgirl and Jordan used the surprise to overcome their jailers, located Rocket-Man, and fled the camp, eventually made it a campsite and a hospital. Upon their return to America they were awarded POW medals in a ceremony interrupted by a ship piloted by Tomar-Tu crashing to Earth. When the three recovered POWs were put back on active Air Force duty, it was done so on the condition that they attend therapy sessions. All three skip the sessions, deciding instead to get together at Pancho's, the station bar, and work through it.
Just 24 hours after being re-activated Cowgirl was sent on a mission alongside pilots to take down the same group of terrorists that took her captive. During the mission her jet was hit and the Air Force lost contact, causing Jordan to go after her in his Green Lantern guise when he found out. When he made it to the crash site and nearby camp there was no sign of her, the terrorists having immediately taken off with her in a jeep when they realized the Green Lantern was coming. Cowgirl yanked the steering wheel, sending the jeep into a tree and herself into a frozen lake, from which she was saved by Hal Jordan, whom she recognized beneath the mask. As he attempted to heal her with his power ring numerous bounty hunters attacked him, until John Stewart, undercover as bounty hunter, "captured" him and deposited Cowgirl in a hospital.When the Star Sapphire gem resurfaced, hosted by Carol Ferris, it attacked Cowgirl at Pancho's to get to Jordan before realizing that Jordan had feelings for her. The Star Sapphire jumped hosts to Cowgirl and chased Jordan, carrying Ferris, through the city as he tried to tire her out, eventually knocking him into a "Honeymoon Hotel". Jordan covered Ferris with a Green Lantern "suit" and the two did battle, with Jordan finally pinning Cowgirl under a car and prying the Sapphire off of her. Four Zamarons stepped out of the portal, and one said that both Cowgirl and Ferris would become the first two members of their Corps.Jordan then told Ferris to attempt to remove the Star Sapphire from Cowgirl while he confronted the Zamarons. Though she was able to do so, the stone immobilized both her and Cowgirl while the Zamarons gained the upper hand over Jordan. The stone asked Jordan which of the two women he desired most, and that the woman he chose would be able to be with him forever. In response, Jordan kissed one of the Zamarons which in turn convinced the stone to release its hostages and possess the Zamaron Jordan kissed instead. The stone reacted with its new host violently, prompting the Zamarons to retreat with their home planet.Pearlman most recently appeared at the beginning of the 2009's crossover Blackest Night storyline, performing a "fly-by" with the Green Lanterns of Earth for Coast City's "memorial day".After the events of DC Rebirth, Pearlman was reintroduced in continuity on Grant Morrison's run.


== References ==


== External links ==
Jillian "Cowgirl" Pearlman comicbookdb