Planet Master

Planet Master is the name of two fictional characters appearing in comics published by DC Comics. The first Planet Master, a scientist called Irving Norbert and his lab assistant, who would later take on the name and costume, first appeared in Detective Comics #296 in October, 1961. The characters were created by writer Bill Finger and artist Jim Mooney.


== Fictional character biographies ==


=== Irving Norbert ===
Professor Irving Norbert is a scientist who was exposed to the gases of a meteor. The result caused him to develop a Jekyll and Hyde-type personality with the bad one turning to a life of crime. Using his knowledge of astronomy, Norbert became a costumed villain named Planet Master and used weapons based on the nine planets. He managed to outwit Batman and Robin in the first battle. Norbert's unscrupulous assistant Edward Burke discovered the double identity of his boss and decided to either join forces with Planet Master or to use his equipment on his own. Ultimately though, the effects of the gas wore off. Norbert's criminal self was erased and Batman brought Burke to justice.


=== Edward Burke ===
When Kobra was creating a strike-force called Strike Force Kobra to usurp Stagg Enterprises in his goal of world domination, one of the villains he created was patterned after the original Planet Master. What makes this version different from the original is that he can simulate the abilities of the other planets. He alongside the other members of Strikeforce Kobra fought the Outsiders and was defeated.Although never stated, it is possible that this Planet Master is Edward Burke (who was the former assistant of the first Planet Master). Even years ago, Burke planned to use the original Planet Master's equipment in crime.
Either way, this Planet Master popped up as a member of Alexander Luthor Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains.


== Powers and abilities ==
The first Planet Master uses weapons based on the planets.
The second Planet Master could simulate the conditions typical to any of the nine planets in our solar system. For example, he can use the speed of Mercury, the heat of Mars, the strength of Jupiter, the rings of Saturn, and the cold of Pluto.


== In other media ==
Planet Master appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Aquaman's Outrageous Adventure," voiced by Stephen Root. Although he has the appearance of the Irving Norbert version of Planet Master, his powers are similar to the second Planet Master. While stopping in a Western theme-park town with his family, Aquaman sees on a TV in the saloon where the Planet Master is attacking the abandoned Yarmouth Gold Mine and fighting Blue Beetle. While his family is on a stagecoach, Aquaman takes the opportunity to help Blue Beetle fight Planet Master in order to keep him from stealing the gold. Aquaman managed to divert the Planet Master's artificial meteor back at Planet Master enough to defeat him. In "A Bat Divided," Planet Master appeared as a patron in the bar where the other villains hang out until the arrival of Firestorm and the three Batmen.
Edward Burke can be heard in Batman: Arkham Knight, voiced by JB Blanc. Burke is a key figure in a side quest in the DLC mission "A Matter of Family". Throughout the tapes, Burke is shown as a billionaire whose daughter is dying of cancer. He is approached by Dr. Penelope Young, Dr. Harleen Quinzel, and Joker under the alias of Jack White to cure her with treatments, while Burke would create the Seaside Amusement Park as a favor to White. His daughter is later revealed to have died from the treatment. Devastated, Burke gives ownership of the park to White and is driven to suicide with pills that are later revealed to be laced with Joker venom.


== See also ==
List of Batman Family enemies


== References ==


== External links ==
Planet Master I's bio
Planet Master II's bio