Professor Ivo

Professor Anthony Ivo (pronunciation: Eiy-voh) is a fictional supervillain, a mad scientist in DC Comics. He is the creator of the android villain Amazo and, along with villainous scientist T.O. Morrow, the co-creator of the android Tomorrow Woman. As a result of his thanatophobia, Ivo has used his own scientific discoveries to make himself nearly immortal and invulnerable, but this has resulted in his appearance becoming monstrous in the process.
Anthony Ivo appeared in the second season of the live-action show Arrow and was played by Dylan Neal.


== Publication history ==
Professor Ivo first appeared in The Brave and the Bold #30 (June 1960) and was created by Gardner Fox and Mike Sekowsky. The same story featured his immortality elixir and his most famous android creation Amazo.


== Fictional character biography ==
Anthony Ivo grows up with thanatophobia, a deep fear of death so strong that he even avoids his own mother's funeral. As he discovers a talent for science, avoiding death and becoming immortal became his life's obsession. Ivo studies cybernetics and genetics, and eventually engages in criminal acts in order to acquire the resources he needs to continue his strange experiments. He concludes he could create an "immortality elixir" by studying and experimenting on animal life known to have long lifespans, and decides he will become immortal and dominate the Earth. To act at his agent in criminal operations and conquest, Ivo creates Amazo, an android built with "absorption cell" technology (later compared to microscopic nanite technology) so he can mimic the abilities of superhumans he encounters. Amazo stalks the founding members of the Justice League (except for Superman and Batman), then uses their powers to steal long-lived animals and kidnap an elderly person. Ivo creates and ingests his immortality elixir. Ivo then attempts to permanently remove the superheroes' powers and memories, but the League defeats him and his android. Ivo is imprisoned and given a sentence of 500 years in case his immortality elixir was successful.
The later story JLA: Year One revised Ivo's history to say that before he created Amazo he worked as a research scientist for the criminal organization Locus, which gives him access to advanced technology recovered from aliens and super-villains, and allows him to dissect the bodies of alien warriors from the planet Appellax who are able to shift their biology and cause other life forms to mimic their own forms. The story implies this research into advanced tech and the fluxing biology of Appellaxians is what helped Ivo create Amazo later.
Years later, Ivo discovers his immortality causes disfigurement that makes his skin scaly and his face monstrous. He blames this on the Justice League and becomes mentally unstable, leading to further criminal actions and attacks on the League. To keep him company, Ivo builds android duplicates of himself that eventually lock him up, repulsed by his insanity. The android then carry out Ivo's desire for revenge by attacking the newly reformed Justice League, killing new team member Vibe.
Later, Ivo builds a private island populated by robots and then discovers that his disfigurement is progressing, causing pain and increased immobility. Deciding he wishes to destroy himself but unable to do it directly, he creates Amazoids, versions of Amazo who can each steal one power. The androids take the powers of Red Star, Rebis, Valor, Power Girl, Starman and Geo-Force, then turn their abilities on Ivo but are unable to kill him. Ice of the Justice League sympathizes with Ivo, unknowingly invoked the power of Guy Gardner's Power Ring to cure him of his condition and restore his original human form.
Despite his disfiguring experience, Ivo succumbs to his death phobia and once again creates an immortality elixir, drinking it and accepting that once again he suffers a monstrous disfigurement, though now of a different nature. Deciding to target the Justice League again, he teams up with fellow mad scientist villain T.O. Morrow and they develop a friendly rivalry, bickering and trying to impress each other while also clearly respecting each other and enjoying their collaboration. They construct the android Tomorrow Woman, designed to act as a superhero in order to infiltrate the League and eventually kill them with an electromagnetic pulse that can disrupt brain functions. To Ivo's annoyance and Morrow's pleasant surprise, Tomorrow Woman becomes a true hero and sacrifices herself to save the Justice League. Discovering her true nature, the team then tracks down and arrests both Ivo and Morrow as they share a toast.
Years later, the time-manipulating android Hourman seeks out Professor Ivo to discuss the deeper nature of androids. In exchange for this talk, Ivo asks to know whether he will one day actually die. Hourman tells him but the reader is not privy to the answer. Ivo decides to meditate on it.
Professor Ivo returns in Infinite Crisis as a member of the Secret Society of Super Villains. Later on, in Justice League of America #4, he attempts to create a new Amazo body that can be inhabited by the mind of the villain Solomon Grundy.

The Secret Society of Super Villains later assigns Ivo to collect soil samples in Auschwitz, Poland which will be used to create the Wonder Woman villain Genocide. He does not care to create the villain, but agrees to do so in hopes that the Society's resources can cure his disfigurement at last. Professor Ivo brings along his newest android Red Volcano as an aid.
Maxwell Lord later approaches Professor Ivo with a job to reprogram the Metal Men and to help Lord build OMAC Prime, an android who, like Amazo, can copy super powers.


=== The New 52 ===
In 2011, The New 52 presents a reboot of the DC Comics universe. During the New 52 origin of the Justice League, in Justice League #4, S.T.A.R. Labs Employee files revealed Anthony Ivo is a 37-year-old male who serves as Head of the Cellular and Structural Biology department at Ivy University for over a decade before joining becoming director of the S.T.A.R. Labs project known as the Red Room, tasked with collecting and analyzing foreign, extraterrestrial and sentient technology deemed dangerous. Professor Ivo becomes pioneers the "organic pattern process," technology that mimics organic life down to a cellular level, which leads to the creation of the A-Maze Operating System. A parallel support program based on Ivo's design, the B-Maze Operating System, is built without Ivo's knowledge. It has showed results comparable to those of A-Maze OS. The same files note that Ivo is unpredictable, disappearing for days at a time and often consumed by personal projects not authorized or approved by S.T.A.R. Labs. Ivo's thanatophobia manifests in panic attacks and drug use, and leads to several confrontations with Ivo's fellow team members.Year later, Amazo fights and is defeated by the Justice League, apparently the result of further development of the A-Maze OS. Ivo fakes his death, then teams up with a mysterious villain known as the Outsider to establish a new Secret Society of Super Villains.


== Powers and abilities ==
Professor Ivo is a criminal mastermind and a scientific genius, skilled in genetics, biology, programming, robotics, artificial intelligence, and engineering. According to JLA: Year One, he was able to obtain some of his knowledge and expertise by studying the technology and biology of aliens and super-villains. He is responsible for the creation of various artificially intelligent androids including Amazo and, with help from T.O. Morrow, the Tomorrow Woman. Ivo has intense thanatophobia, with the one exception being a short time when he believed suicide was preferable to increasing pain and immobility (though even then, his fear prevented him from attempting the act himself).
As a result of his immortality elixir, Ivo's skin seems to be invulnerable to conventional weapons, fire, and most forms of energy attack.  It is not known if his aging has been completely halted, but Ivo himself believed his first elixir would extend his life for five hundred years and that he could consume more elixir when it wore off. The elixir presumably makes him immune to all disease and poison as well. Ivo has never succeeded in making a version that didn't cause disfigurement or mutation, and has never been able to remove the disfigurement without also removing his immortality.


== Professor Ivo's Androids ==
The following androids were created by Professor Ivo:

Amazo - Android capable of mimicking physical abilities, superpowers, and creating copies of weapons.
Amazoid - Androids similar to Amazo, but each can only duplicate the abilities of one superhuman.
Composite Superman - In one version of Professor Ivo's origin, his android Composite Superman is an early attempt to duplicate the Justice League's powers before later creating Amazo.
Kid Amazo - The "Son" of Amazo, a techno-organic being created with Amazo technology and manipulation of human biology.
Red Volcano - An android with great speed and heat-based abilities.
Tomorrow Woman - An artificial life-form with telekinetic powers, artificial respiration and pulse, and false memories of a human life; co-created by T.O. Morrow and originally designed to infiltrate and eventually destroy the Justice League.
Extreme-O - Designed to emulate Vibe, a robot capable of breakdancing. (Exclusive to DC Nation comedy shorts)


== Other versions ==
Professor Ivo appears in DC Super Friends comics. Professor Ivo was a genius robotic who hoped his androids would be his ticket to fame. Unfortunately for him, news outlets ignored him to report on the exploits on the Super Friends. Seeking revenge, he created Amazo to defeat the superheroes. He and Amazo attacked the Super Friends, with Amazo catching them off guard and replicated Green Lantern's powers to trap them. After they escaped, Ivo and his android against attacked the Super Friends. Aquaman question the professor as to why Amazo had yet to display his powers, prompting Ivo to send him into a nearby bod of water, causing him to short circuit. Afterwards, Professor Ivo was sent to prison. 
Professor Ivo is featured in the Smallville Season 11 digital comic based on the TV series as a member of Emil Hamilton's Star Labs. 
Professor Ivo appears in Injustice 2 comics as a scientist known for the invention of the adaptive android Amazo. His family were abducted by the League of Assassins and he was forced to build an exceptionally powerful Amazo for Ra's al Ghul.  After learning from Jason Todd that his family had been murdered, Ivo took back control of Amazo in order to allow the Justice League Task Force and Supergirl to destroy it. For his betrayal, he was shot in the head and murdered by Athanasia al Ghul (secret daughter of Talia and Batman). 


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Professor Ivo (listed on the computer screen at one point as Arthur Ivo) appeared as a cameo in the Justice League episode "Tabula Rasa" as AMAZO's creator. Ivo worked for LexCorp, but was fired when Mercy Graves took over the company. When Lex Luthor goes to see Ivo, he is already dead (contrary to the comics, where he has longevity) but Luthor finds AMAZO instead. Luthor briefly quips that the "... cigarettes finally got you".
Professor Ivo was referenced in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Panic In The Sky", where Luthor is using his blueprints for AMAZO to create an android body for himself, saying that it was Ivo he had to thank for his "impending godhood".
Professor Ivo appears in several episodes of Young Justice, voiced by Peter MacNicol. In the episode "Schooled", Ivo sends Amazo after the League, and subsequently, his M.O.N.Q.I. (pronounced "monkey") robots to retrieve the parts of Amazo. Superboy trails the M.O.N.Q.I.s back to Ivo, who unleashes Amazo on him. The fight ends at Robin's school, where Superboy destroys Amazo, but Ivo escapes. In "Terrors", Professor Ivo makes a cameo as an inmate at Belle Reve. In "Humanity", the team and Zatanna visit Professor Ivo in Belle Reve to interrogate him on where T.O. Morrow's hideout. Zatanna magically induces him to snitch that T.O. Morrow's base is beneath Yellowstone National Park somewhere near Old Faithful. Afterwards Professor Ivo makes contact to T.O. Morrow (who was being impersonated by Red Volcano) warning him that the team is heading their way. In "Insecurity", Sportsmaster springs Professor Ivo from Belle Reve while an android of him visits T.O. Morrow's bedside. Professor Ivo is brought before Brain and Klarion the Witch Boy stating to them that T.O. Morrow's scientific mind is in a coma. Ivo, Brain, and Klarion experiment on the Starro sample and managed to complete their experiment. When Artemis crashes into their lab, Klarion uses his magic to get himself and the other villains out of the warehouse. Professor Ivo returned to Belle Reve where he thanks his android duplicate for filling in for him while he was away.
Professor Ivo appears in DC Nation Shorts, voiced by Jason Marsden. In a two-part short featuring Vibe, he creates a breakdancing android named Extreme-O to beat Vibe only for it to be destroyed by Vibe.
Professor Ivo is referenced in the Justice League Action episode "Boo-ray for Bizarro". His history of creating Amazo is still intact and Amazo mentions that Professor Ivo is dead while making a rest in peace comment towards him.


==== Arrowverse ====
The Arrowverse version of Anthony Ivo appears in Arrow, portrayed by Dylan Neal. This version appears as the main antagonist in the second season's flashbacks. Dr. Ivo is the employer of the crew of a ship called Amazo and is never referred to as "Professor Ivo"; instead he uses the title "Doctor". He is looking for a sunken submarine containing a serum created by the Japanese Army during World War II known as Mirakuru ("Miracle" in English), leading him to the island of Lian Yu where Oliver Queen was stranded for five years. He claims that he intends "to save the human race" via his experiments and befriends Sara Lance, rescuing her from "The Queen's Gambit". However, a radio conversation between Ivo and his wife Jessica indicates he may have come to the island seeking a cure for her unspecified, worsening illness. He is also responsible for the death of Shado when he shoots her with a gun on the Island, forcing Oliver to choose between Shado and Sara (a decision Slade was unaware of, and wants revenge on both men). After having his right hand removed by a recently revived crazed Slade Wilson and losing the Amazo to him, Ivo began to suffer blood poisoning, creating the appearance of scaly skin on his torso and arm as shown in the comics and retreats to Oliver and his team Anatoli Knyazev (another prisoner/survivor). After revealing the Mirakuru could be cured, he asked to be granted a quick death; Oliver Queen fatale shots him immediately after.
Ivo is mentioned in the 2018 crossover Elseworlds as it features Ivo Labs in Central City, which houses an android named A.M.A.Z.O. (Anti-Metahuman Adaptive Zutonic Organism). It is mentioned again in The Flash episode "Goldfaced" in which Barry Allen/Flash and Ralph Dibney/Elongated Man infiltrate Goldface's black market gang for supplies to stop Cicada 1, and Goldface agrees to give them what they want in exchange for their assistance in a heist at Ivo Laboratories to steal life-saving technology.


=== Film ===
Professor Ivo makes a brief appearance in Justice League: War as a scientist at S.T.A.R Labs.


=== Video games ===
Ivo was mentioned when The Amazo Project was brought up in Lego DC Super-Villains along with a picture of him and Lex Luthor Water Skiing shown.


== References ==