Rama Khan

Rama Khan is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. He first appeared in JLA #62 and was created by Joe Kelly and Doug Mahnke.


== Fictional character biography ==
Rama Khan's earliest appearance is 1,004 BC, with no information given about his exact birth date. In the land of Atlantis, he became the joint ruler of Atlantis, sharing the post with Gamemnae. Khan had earlier journeyed to Atlantis from the faraway land of Jarhanpur to assemble a group of heroes to protect the realm.
Later on, in the 21st century, Rama Khan reappeared in Jarhanpur as its elemental defender. When he kidnapped a boy and separated him from his mother because the child was his spiritual successor, Khan found himself in conflict with the Justice League. He broke Wonder Woman's lasso of truth, resulting in reality unravelling as the nature of existence began to be defined by belief rather than truth; the Earth was the center of the universe for two weeks before anybody noticed, it became flat for a few hours, and the Moon was even made of cheese at one point. Although Jarhanpur's nature as living land protected it from this chaos, the League, resolved to stop this before the world became defined by the beliefs of every individual person on the planet, confronted Rama Khan once again, during which Wonder Woman accepted why the Lasso had broken; when she'd confirmed that Rama Khan was telling the truth about the need for a successor to his position, her denial of this truth had caused the lasso to break and cause a subsequent breakdown of the rules of truth. With this self-discovery, Jarhanpur helped Diana to repair the Lasso, restoring reality and undoing the initial damage. As an aftereffect of this restoration, the land rejected Rama Khan; he was now focused more on preserving his position than respecting the wishes of the land, which wished to help Diana and her teammates rescue its people.


== Powers and abilities ==
Rama Khan's abilities are largely based on his birthplace, Jarhanpur. With the aid of magic, Rama Khan can turn a handful of its soil into fire, granite, or wine. Khan is also super strong, immortal, and is a great magician.


== In other media ==
Rama Khan makes his live-action debut in the fifth season of Supergirl, portrayed by Mitch Pileggi. He first appears in the episode "Tremors" where he is depicted as a high-ranking Leviathan member with superhuman powers of seismic and earthen-materials manipulation, including kinetic control of kryptonite, who comes to Earth from Krypton's sister planet Jarhanpur during the Age of Dinosaurs. According to the series, Rama Khan is responsible for a number of cataclysmic events, such as the biblical flood, the Destruction of Pompeii, the 526 Antioch earthquake, the Yellow River Flood, and the 1970 Bhola cyclone.


== See also ==
Atlantis


== References ==


== Further reading ==
The DC Comics Encyclopedia, 2004, DK Publishings