Red Volcano

Red Volcano is a fictional character, a comic book android supervillain published by DC Comics. He first appeared in DC Universe #0 (April 2008), and was created by Grant Morrison, Gail Simone and Aaron Lopresti.


== Publication history ==
Red Volcano debuted in DC Universe #0, and returned in 2009's Red Tornado mini-series.


== Fictional character biography ==
Red Volcano was created by Professor Ivo and T.O. Morrow. Ivo uses him as an aide during his tenure as part of the Secret Society of Super Villains. He helps Ivo in collecting soil samples from various regions of Earth where acts of genocide took place over the past 100 years. This is a plot to create a golem called Genocide. Following the Final Crisis, he was with Cheetah's Secret Society of Super Villains.
During the events of the Red Tornado miniseries, it is revealed that Red Volcano is one of three other androids that were created besides Red Tornado, the first of which was Red Torpedo, a female water elemental who was the first of the four, and much later Red Inferno, a fire elemental designed to look much younger than the other four. Of the four "siblings" representing the elements, Red Volcano is an earth elemental who can manipulate molten rock and magma. The Volcano lacks the humanity or conscience that his "siblings" have, going so far as to torture his creator into revealing the whereabouts of the other two robots. When Morrow tells him where the Red Inferno is, the Volcano heads for the child robot's home neighborhood and mercilessly murders the Inferno's adopted parents and destroys the entire neighborhood. He then takes the distraught Inferno with him into the atmosphere, telling him that the government was responsible for killing his parents in order to get him to destroy orbiting satellites and wreak havoc.


== Powers and abilities ==
Red Volcano possesses heat generating abilities. He is also shown wearing a cape made of molten rock.
He also has super-strength and flight, and has also demonstrated geokinesis to a great extent.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Red Volcano appears in the Young Justice episode "Humanity", voiced by Jeff Bennett. He was built by T.O. Morrow without any concern for humans, leading Red Volcano to literally tear him apart, revealing T.O. Morrow to be an android the human T.O. Morrow had created, as he was getting too old to continue his work. Unlike the comics, this version of the character had the power to manipulate Earth and Stone, completing the list of classical elements alongside Water (Red Torpedo), Fire (Red Inferno), and Air (Red Tornado). Red Volcano reveals to Red Tornado, Red Inferno, and Red Torpedo that he plans to set off a dormant volcano in Yellowstone National Park. Upon being tipped off by Professor Ivo about the team heading their way, Red Volcano sends Red Tornado to attack them. Red Volcano arrives to kill the team himself when Red Tornado had them "Play Dead". After a magic attack from Zatanna, Red Volcano ends up setting off the volcano. The heroes fought to keep Red Volcano from making the eruption get to Stage 2. Red Tornado convinces Red Inferno and Red Torpedo to help fight Red Volcano. They both sacrifice themselves to keep Red Volcano pinned down in the lava as Red Tornado uses his powers to prevent a Stage 3 explosion. In "Runaways", a rebuilt Red Volcano attacks a S.T.A.R. Labs building in Taos, New Mexico in order to retrieve the boxes containing Amazo's parts. When Red Volcano defeats Blue Beetle, Virgil Hawkins, Asami Koizumi, and Ed Dorado end up fighting Red Volcano while Tye Longshadow rescues Blue Beetle. After Blue Beetle recovered, he fought Red Volcano again while the other kids rescued the bystanders from the destructive battle. Blue Beetle eventually destroys Red Volcano by drilling a hole into him and unleashing a sonic blast into his body. It's revealed that the true purpose of Red Volcano's attack was so that Lex Luthor could "seal the deal" with the teenagers and get them on his side.


== References ==


== External links ==
DC Comics: The Source - Like Red Tornado? Well, here’s some good news (June 11, 2009)