Ron Troupe

Ron Troupe is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.


== Publication history ==
Ron Troupe debuted in Adventures of Superman #480 (July 1991) and was created by Jerry Ordway and Tom Grummett.


== Fictional character biography ==
Along with Cat Grant, he is one of the most enduring characters of the Daily Planet bullpen created in DC's Post-Crisis Universe. He first appeared in Adventures of Superman #480 (July 1991) where he was turned down for a job at the Daily Planet by acting-editor Sam Foswell. In the following issue, he got a job at Colin Thornton's Newstime magazine when Jimmy Olsen was late for his interview. Shortly afterwards, he was fired from Newstime and hired by Perry White, who had returned to the Planet. During the Reign of the Supermen, White compared Troupe's piece on the Cyborg Superman to the first Superman stories by Lois Lane and Clark Kent.
Troupe was one of the Planet's more level-headed reporters, and not as likely as Lois or Jimmy to get into situations he cannot get out of, although he was still prepared to run risks in pursuit of a story. He  twice took on the racist supervillain Bloodsport II. During events following the selling of Daily Planet to LexCorp, Ron Troupe and Lois Lane's sister Lucy Lane were romantically involved. He married Lucy, and had a son, Samuel Troupe, named for Lucy's father Sam Lane. 
Between the events of Infinite Crisis and The New 52 revamp of Superman continuity, Ron and Lucy's relationship was not explored. Lucy worked in Washington D.C. for the military and Ron was still in Metropolis; the canonical status of their relationship appeared to remain untouched following the events of the Infinite Crisis as Ron appeared in a flashback to Sam Lane's funeral, but the events that drove Ron and Lucy apart were unrevealed. According to Action Comics Annual #11 (May 2008), Ron Troupe is the most highly educated reporter on staff at the Daily Planet, and has more awards than anyone else at the paper. It is also stated that he is known for his political editorials, he is an avid activist in too many groups to list, and he often butts heads with Daily Planet Sports Editor Steve Lombard on nearly everything.
His relationship with Lombard is highlighted in the 'Brainiac' storyline, where the two come into verbal conflict over the manner each chooses to cover sports related topics. However, both work together when alien robots invade the Daily Planet, even saving Cat Grant's life in the process.The 2009-2010 miniseries Superman: Secret Origin established that Troupe, in post-Infinite Crisis continuity, was already on the staff of the Daily Planet when Clark Kent began working at the newspaper.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Ron Troupe made several brief appearances in Superman: The Animated Series episodes "Last Son of Krypton" and "Hand of Fate" voiced by Dorian Harewood. Troupe also made regular background cameos in the Daily Planet throughout the series.
Ron Troupe made non-speaking cameos in various episodes of Justice League and Justice League Unlimited. He was usually seen in scenes set in Metropolis. Notably, Troupe appeared alongside Lois Lane, Jimmy Olsen, and Perry White in the series finale "Destroyer".
In Smallville, Ron's byline appears on a Daily Planet article in Season 8 about a mysterious Red-Blue Blur (Clark Kent) that has appeared all over Metropolis, saving people. In the Season 10 episode "Icarus", a file on Lois Lane lists Ron and Samuel Troupe as her relatives. Ron himself does not appear on the series until the Season 10 episode "Booster", where he is portrayed by P.J. Prinsloo.
In The Flash, Ron's byline appears briefly on an article titled "Local Doctor Kills Wife, Son Survives" in the first-season episode "The Man in the Yellow Suit".
In the second part of Arrowverse crossover "Crisis on Infinite Earths", it is revealed that Ron and other Daily Planet staff are later murdered by an insane criminal from Gotham City.


=== Film ===
Ron Troupe appears as a background character in All-Star Superman. The character does not have any lines in the film, but appears in the Daily Planet scenes alongside Jimmy Olsen, Cat Grant, and Steve Lombard.
Ron Troupe appears in Superman: Unbound voiced by Michael-Leon Wooley.
Ron Troupe appears in Reign of the Supermen voiced, uncredited, by Nyambi Nyambi.
Ron Troupe appears in Superman Red Son, voiced by Phil LaMarr.
Ron Troupe appears in Superman: Man of Tomorrow, voiced by Eugene Byrd.


=== Miscellaneous ===
Though not appearing on The Batman, Ron Troupe has a cameo appearance in the spin-off comic book The Batman Strikes! in issue #44. He appears in the Daily Planet when Bruce Wayne pays a visit.
Ron Troupe is featured in the Smallville Season 11 digital comic based on the TV series.


== References ==


== External links ==
DCU Guide: Ronald Troupe
Superman Homepage: Ronald Troupe