Roxxas

Kivun Roxxas ("RO- shahs") is a fictional supervillain in the DC Universe. Primarily a foe of the Legion of Super-Heroes, he first appeared in Adventure Comics #307 (April 1963).


== Fictional character biography ==
As revealed in the story "The Secret Power of the Mystery Super-Hero!", Anton Roxxas, known as "Roxxas the Butcher", is the leader of an army of space pirates. The Legion of Super-Heroes recruit a number of new heroes for their fight against the villain, including Mystery Lad, who joins the Legion with the stipulation that he won't reveal his powers. Mystery Lad is finally revealed to be Jan Arrah, the sole survivor of the planet Trom. The natives of Trom had the ability to transmute any element into another element. Roxxas, who wanted access to this power to create great wealth, attempted to force the natives of Trom to obey him. When they refused, Roxxas destroyed everyone on the planet. Jan was the sole survivor, having been off planet during the attack. The Legion and Jan manage to capture Roxxas and send him to prison. Jan joins the Legion under the name Element Lad.
Roxxas returned in Superboy #211 (September 1975), in the story "The Ultimate Revenge".  After learning that Roxxas has escaped from prison, Element Lad tracks the pirate to Trom. Angry over the death of his people, Element Lad attempts to kill the former pirate, but is prevented from executing Roxxas by fellow Legionnaire Chemical King. Element Lad's need for revenge is satisfied when he learns that Roxxas has been driven insane by his guilt over the genocide of Trom.


=== Legion vol 4 ===
Roxxas was the primary villain in the initial story arc of the v4 Legion. Sprung from prison by the Earth Government (secretly run by the Dominators) and given advanced weaponry, he was assigned with preventing the reformation of the Legion of Super-Heroes, preferably by killing them. They ignored his irrational behavior, which included hearing voices in his head of his former victims. He set out by murdering ex-Legionnaire Blok. He expected this would cause the remaining Legion members to gather on Shanghalla for the funeral, where he could take them out with one bomb. They instead gathered on Winath, so he attacked them there, critically wounding Chameleon Boy and injuring several others before being forced to flee. He was eventually tracked down by a team led by Element Lad and returned to prison. He then provided key evidence that Earthgov was run by the Dominators, which started the next story arc of freeing Earth from their control. In many ways his actions brought about the very thing he was hired to prevent, as the Legion reformed.


=== Post Zero Hour ===
Roxxas reappears in Legionnaires #27 (July 1995) in a new form. In the new continuity, Roxxas is the United Planets ambassador from Daxam, and the leader of the White Triangle, a racist, xenophobic group bent on galactic domination. Roxxas pressured the Daxamite Legionnaire Andromeda (who was raised in a White Triangle enclave) to be his spy in the Legion, but she eventually turned against him and he was seemingly killed in a power plant explosion.
In Legionnaires #54 (Nov 1996), a version of Roxxas is reintroduced as part of an alternate universe created by the Time Trapper, and a homage to Golden Age comics. This Roxxas is a Nazi fighting the Legion in World War II, alongside an Italian Tangleweb and a Japanese Doctor Regulus. In keeping with the limited superpowers of the setting, Roxxas has the Golden Age Superman's original powers. His origin is not explained.


== Powers and abilities ==
In his original appearance Roxxas had no special abilities. Post Zero Hour Roxxas has all the abilities of a Daxamite, including super-strength, flight, invulnerability, and heat vision.


== References ==