Tim Drake

Timothy Jackson Drake is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly in association with the superhero Batman. Created by Marv Wolfman and Pat Broderick, he first appeared in Batman #436 (August 1989) as the third character to assume the role of Batman's vigilante partner Robin. Following the events in Batman: Battle for the Cowl in 2009, Drake adopted the alias of Red Robin. In 2019, Tim returned to his original Robin persona in the Wonder Comics relaunch of Young Justice, but later adopted his current codename Drake. In 2020, he gives up the Drake codename and costume and becomes Robin again.
As a young boy, Tim was in the audience the night Dick Grayson's parents were murdered and later managed to discover the identities of Batman and the original Robin through their exploits. After the death of the second Robin, Jason Todd, and witnessing Batman spiral into darkness, Tim was convinced that he should train to become the third Robin.
The character has been featured in various adaptations, including the animated television series The New Batman Adventures, Young Justice: Invasion, and the video game series Batman: Arkham. In 2011, Tim Drake was ranked 32nd in IGN's Top 100 Comic Book Heroes.


== Publication history ==
Tim Drake was named after Tim Burton, director of the then-upcoming 1989 film. The character first appeared in 1989's Batman: Year Three before having his origin detailed in Batman: A Lonely Place of Dying, a crossover story between the ongoing series Batman and New Titans written by Marv Wolfman, in which he first introduced himself to Dick Grayson and impressed the former Robin with his skills. This led to Grayson and later Alfred Pennyworth, Bruce Wayne's butler, to support Tim's request to be Batman's new partner. Not wanting to make the same mistake as he did with Jason Todd, Batman had Tim endure an intensive period of training that was never given to his predecessors. As such, Tim remained a non-superhero supporting character for the first year of his regular appearances in the Batman title, mainly operating in the Batcave.
Tim eventually became the third Robin over the course of the story arcs "Rite of Passage" and "Identity Crisis",, both written by Alan Grant. Immediately afterwards, the character starred in the five-issue miniseries Robin, written by Chuck Dixon. The new Batman and Robin team went on their first official mission together in the story "Debut", written by Grant.
As the character continued to appear in the main Batman titles, the original Robin miniseries was followed by the four-part Robin II: The Joker's Wild! and the six-part Robin III: Cry of the Huntress, both also written by Dixon. Due to the success of these miniseries, DC launched the first ongoing monthly Robin series in its history, once again written by Dixon, with Tim Drake as its main character. The ongoing series continued for over fifteen years, ending with issue #183. Mike Mullins on Newsarama has stated:

Throughout [the entire Robin series], the character of Robin has been captured consistently, showing him to step up to greater and greater challenges. Robin is a character who shows initiative and is driven to do what he views as right. He knows he is living up to a legacy left by Dick Grayson and strives to not disappoint Bruce Wayne, Batman. Tim is a more natural detective than previous Robins and is talented with computers, which allows him to stand in his own unique spotlight. Unlike his predecessors, Tim is not the most proficient combatant and has had to really work on his fighting technique, taking up the bo staff to give him an edge that Batman does not need. Tim almost always seeks to analyze a problem and to outthink his opponent but has shown the ability to win a fight when necessary.
During this period, the character also featured prominently in the comic series Young Justice, written by Peter David, as a core team member from 1998 to 2003. Subsequently, Tim Drake also became a prominent team member in the new incarnation of Teen Titans written by Geoff Johns, from 2003 to 2011. 
The ongoing series Robin was written by Chuck Dixon until issue #100, in which the series was handed off to Jon Lewis. Lewis's run as writer concluded with issue #120. Bill Willingham wrote the series for issues #121-147. As part of DC Comics' "One Year Later" relaunch initiative, in which the events of all ongoing titles skipped forward one year, Adam Beechen took over as writer on Robin with issue #148. Later, a return to the title by Chuck Dixon was aborted abruptly upon his departure from DC again. The final nine issues of the series were written by Fabian Nicieza, tying into the then-ongoing "Batman R.I.P." storyline.
Following the miniseries Batman: Battle For the Cowl, Tim Drake took on the new identity of Red Robin as the character Damian Wayne was made the new Robin. The character began starring in a new Red Robin ongoing series, written for its first twelve issues by Christopher Yost and thereafter by Fabian Nicieza. The series was cancelled along with the rest of DC's publishing line for The New 52 reboot.
In the New 52 period, Tim Drake primarily appeared as a main character in the Teen Titans series, with some guest appearances in the Batman titles, under the superhero name Red Robin. Tim was also a main character in the 26-issue weekly series Batman and Robin Eternal alongside the other former Robins. Meanwhile, a version of Tim from five years into the future was also a main character in the weekly series The New 52: Futures End; this alternate-future version of Tim would become the title character in the subsequent Batman Beyond series up until its relaunch with DC Rebirth.
As of the DC Rebirth relaunch, Tim Drake became a main character in the series Detective Comics as written by James Tynion IV where it was reinvented as a team book. The character featured in issues #934-940 and #965-981, with some flashback appearances in the interim.
The character has subsequently become a main character in the relaunched Young Justice series written by Brian Michael Bendis.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Introduction ===
Tim Drake is the son of Jack Drake and Janet Drake, coming from the same social class as Bruce Wayne. When he was a young child, he visited the circus for the first time with his parents. The Drakes asked the Flying Graysons for a photo together, resulting in a momentary bond between Tim and Dick Grayson as they met for the first time. Dick Grayson's parents were murdered that night, as witnessed by Tim from the audience.
Growing up, Tim's parents were frequently absent for months at a time as they travelled around the world on archaeological digs, leaving him with very little adult supervision. By the age of nine, Tim had deduced the identities of Batman and Robin as Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson, after witnessing a gymnastic maneuver by Robin that he previously saw Grayson display in the Haly Circus. Inspired by the heroes' exploits, Tim trained himself in martial arts, acrobatics, detective skills, and scholastics to better himself both physically and intellectually. When Tim reached the age of thirteen, he saw that Batman had grown reckless and violent following the second Robin (Jason Todd)'s murder by the Joker. Reasoning that "Batman needs a Robin", Tim at first approached Dick Grayson to ask him to become Robin again. Dick refused, but Tim's actions in an encounter with Two-Face prompted him and Alfred Pennyworth to see Tim as a potential third Robin. Batman agreed to mentor Tim, train him and use his assistance in the Batcave, but at first refused to involve Tim in the field out of concern for the boy's safety. After a series of events involving Tim's mother's death and his father's paralysis, and Tim rescuing Batman in an encounter with the Scarecrow, Batman eventually enlisted him as the third Robin at the age of fourteen.


=== Robin (1989–2009) ===
Before joining Batman as the third Robin, Tim Drake was given a modern redesign of the Robin costume and sent to train abroad with numerous experts to refine his martial arts. When Bruce Wayne retires after Knightfall, Robin goes solo to defend Gotham City. Robin would eventually go on to co-star with other teenaged superheroes in Young Justice and Teen Titans. He also made guest appearances in other DC comic books such as Nightwing and Azrael.
Robin would also become increasingly closer to fellow teen vigilante Stephanie Brown, also known as the Spoiler. Although at first he regarded her as reckless in operating without Batman's guidance, the two would eventually become romantically involved. For a brief period when Tim's father found out about him being Robin and he retired from the role, Stephanie temporarily replaced him as the new Robin.
Following the death of his father in Identity Crisis (2004) and the presumed death of his girlfriend Stephanie Brown in Batman: War Games (2004–2005), Tim relocated to Blüdhaven, the city where Nightwing fights crime, for a period of time in order to escape the "ghosts" of Gotham City and to stay close to his stepmother Dana Winters who was admitted into a Blüdhaven clinic after going into psychological shock over Jack Drake's murder at the hands of Captain Boomerang.Tim Drake was then given another redesign of the Robin costume with a red and black color scheme. The colors are those of Superboy's costume, in tribute to his best friend Superboy after he also died in battle in Infinite Crisis (2005–2006).Once Dick takes over the role of Batman after Bruce's apparent death in Batman R.I.P. and Final Crisis, he fires Tim from the Robin mantle and gives it to Damian Wayne, due to Dick believing him and Tim are equals. Tim, believing that Bruce is still alive, assumes the identity of Red Robin and leaves Gotham City to go on a worldwide search for Wayne.


=== Red Robin (2009–2011) ===
Red Robin, which was launched in late 2009, depicted Tim Drake's search to find evidence that Bruce Wayne was still alive after cutting himself off from the rest of the Bat Family. He was approached by Ra's al Ghul's assassins who were also interested in finding out what happened to Batman. At the same time, Tamara "Tam" Fox, Lucius Fox's daughter, has been sent to find Tim Drake to bring him back to Gotham. Tim goes to Iraq and manages to discover definitive proof that Bruce was alive and lost in time, but was ambushed by an assassin from the Council of Spiders. He manages to drive himself and Pru (one of the assassins working for Ra's al Ghul, who had become an ally of Tim's) to Tam's hotel room, and they are promptly abducted by the League of Assassins.
Although initially reluctant, Tim Drake entered into an alliance with Ra's before nearly bleeding to death due to their encounter with the Council of Spiders. He was put in charge of the League of Assassins by Ra's and used the time to simultaneously plan how to stop the Council of Spiders and destroy the League of Assassins. After failing to foil all but one of the Council's assassination attempts, Tim realizes that the Council will be attacking the League's base, and realizes that he left Tam in danger at the base. Rushing back to base, he simultaneously manages to delay the Council of Spiders, blow up the League's base, and escape with Tam.
After crippling Ra's' League of Assassins, Drake returns to Gotham City to overthrow Ra's plans to use Hush (surgically altered to resemble Bruce Wayne) to gain control of the Wayne family resources and destroy all that Batman held dear by directing his assassins to target all of the Batman's associates. Realizing that these attacks are a smokescreen and that the real target is coercing Hush to sign away Wayne Enterprises, Red Robin decides to confront Ra's head on. He calls upon all of his friends to protect the various targets. Drake has since moved back to Gotham City and reestablished ties with his family and friends.
After Bruce Wayne's return, Tim begins to aid his plans for expanding their mission globally with Batman, Inc. Tim is eventually appointed as the head of the newest incarnation of the Outsiders that now serve as Batman Inc.'s black-ops wing. Red Robin eventually rejoins the Teen Titans and takes over leadership from Wonder Girl. He remains as the team's leader during their climactic battle against Superboy-Prime and the new Legion of Doom.Following an adventure with Black Bat where he faces Ra's al Ghul's sister, Tim stalks in his eye and attempts to kill a revived Captain Boomerang during the Brightest Day. Though Tim ultimately stops himself from killing Boomerang, he is chastised by Batman for his actions.


=== The New 52 (2011–2016) ===
In September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Teen Titans #0 revealed Tim Drake's new origin, showing a large departure from his original origin, removing his connections to Dick Grayson's origin story. In the New 52, Tim is a talented athlete and computer genius who comes close to discovering the Batman's identity but never totally figures it out. When Tim finds the Batman and gets rejected for the role of sidekick, he decides to bring the Batman to him, by hacking the Penguin's bank account and donating millions of dollars thus putting his family in danger. The Penguin's goons come after Tim and his family, but the Batman saves them. Tim's parents are forced to go into witness protection, but they believe Tim deserves better and ask Bruce to take care of him for them. The Witness Protection Program renames him "Tim Drake," and he takes on the identity of "Red Robin", rather than the identity of "Robin", out of respect to Jason Todd. In recent issues he is shown to be a founding member of the Teen Titans as well as their leader, and he shows feelings for Wonder Girl.
Tim was unwilling to meet with the rest of the Bat-Family at the Batcave after he was infected with the Joker's new compound "HA". He was present when Damian was killed by The Heretic and admitted to Bruce that even though he had a dysfunctional relationship with Damian that he did grieve for him. He was also at the final battle between Batman and The Heretic when Talia killed her son's clone and blew up Wayne Tower.
Tim was also part of the Bat-Family's assembled team which went to Apokolips to retrieve Damian's body. As their mission focused on retrieving Robin, Tim, Jason, and Barbara wore costumes which resembled Damian's colors and each wore a Robin symbol. Following the completion of their mission and the revival of Damian he handed him the Robin symbol on his suit to welcome Damian back to life and to the role of Robin.
In the pre-Convergence timeline of Futures End, Refugees from Earth-2 are given a signal from Brother Eye, which allow them into the Earth-0 Universe, but start a war when Darkseid follows them, leading to the deaths of the Teen Titans, except for Drake. Tim abandons his Red Robin mantle and becomes a bartender until an attack by Brainiac, where changes to the timeline are made. Brainiac is captured, and Terry McGinnis dies at the hands of Brother Eye's Batman-Joker hybrid. Tim dons the Batman Beyond suit and goes back in time and prevents Brother Eye from sending the signal to Earth-2, creating a new future where there is less destruction, and the events of Convergence and everything afterwards take place. Tim is launched into the new future, 35 years later, where he becomes the new Batman and destroys a weakened Brother Eye.


=== DC Rebirth (2016–present) ===
In Rebirth, Tim Drake still operates under the Red Robin alias. He gains a new and third overall Red Robin suit similar to his first Robin suit except with two "R"s as his logo instead of one. It is revealed later on in Detective Comics #965 that Tim Drake's origin story has reverted to that of the original universe, where he discovers Batman and Robin's identities after Jason Todd's death, and became Robin before adopting the Red Robin persona.
Tim is primarily featured in "Detective Comics" as part of Batman and Batwoman's new team in Gotham, along with Orphan, Spoiler, and Clayface. Red Robin, Orphan, Spoiler, and Clayface are being trained as a group by Batman and Batwoman, who are preparing them for the upcoming enemies known as the Colonists. The Colonists are revealed to be a military group under the command of Batwoman's father, Jake Kane, who have modeled themselves after Batman in a more violent matter. After the team rescues Batman and Tim hacks their database to discover their plans, Jake sends two waves of Bat-Drones to take down the "League of Shadows," which will kill hundreds of innocents in the process. As his other teammates evacuate the locations the drones were sent to, Tim hacks the drone's mission directive to make himself the sole target, knowing that the drones will stop once the target is eliminated.While Tim manages to take down the first wave of drones, he is apparently killed by the second wave, devastating the Bat family and his former Teen Titans teammates. Prior to the mission, Tim was accepted to receive a genius grant from Ivy University, and planned to study there after defeating the Colonists. However, just before Tim was blasted by the second wave, he is teleported to an unknown place by Mister Oz and kept prisoner. Tim swore that his friends will find him.Later, Batman learns from Ascalon, a robotic entity created by the Order of St. Dumas, that Tim is still alive, with Batman resolving to find Tim.In Mr. Oz's prison, Tim is forced to relive his memories of the past by Mr. Oz. Realizing that Mr. Oz is using Kryptonian technology, Tim easily hacks into it and frees himself as Mr. Oz reveals his identity as Jor-El and disappears. As he tries to find a way out, Tim finds Batman but discovers this version of Batman is actually Tim Drake from the Titans Tomorrow future. Unable to accept a future where he decides to become Batman, Tim is forced to aid his older-self in evading and containing a freed Doomsday. Tim learns from his future self that Dick, Jason, and Damian all tried to be Batman but either retired or was forced to be put down by Tim (in the case for Damian). After Doomsday is lured back to his cell, both Tims teleport out of Mr. Oz's prison and arrive in Gotham in the Titans Tomorrow future. Before being sent back, Tim is asked by his future self to apologize to Conner but the younger Tim has no idea who Conner is, although he later admits that the name is tugging at his heart, though he doesn't know why. Tim is incapacitated by his future self as the latter decides to go back in time to kill Batwoman, the apparent cause of Tim becoming Batman. Tim returns to Gotham and is reunited with the Bat Family but warns them about Future Tim.
After a battle with Ulysses Armstrong and Brother Eye, Tim and Stephanie leave Gotham to investigate the alternate timelines, and Tim's restored memories of his past friends from Young Justice.  This leads him to Metropolis, where he is reunited with Wonder Girl, Impulse, and meets Teen Lantern and Ginny Hex.  The five young heroes later travel to Gemworld, where they are also reunited with Superboy, and meet Princess Amethyst. Lost in the Multiverse, Young Justice struggles to return home, with Tim taking on the new identity of Drake.


== Skills and abilities ==


=== Combat skills ===
Prior to becoming Robin, Tim Drake had trained in martial arts and was a capable, if inexperienced, combatant. Bruce Wayne built upon this foundation by initially replicating the training he used for both Dick Grayson and Jason Todd, formally training in several fighting styles, such as Aikido, Judo, Karate, Savate, Kung Fu, Ninjutsu, and Tai Chi  in addition to being trained in gymnastics. While this echoed the training of previous Robins, Bruce slanted the training with a greater emphasis on stealth tactics, ranged combat, and better defense.In his early exploits, Tim frequently demonstrated this training by attacking from the shadows, using a sling for extra distance, and relying more heavily on throwing shuriken.
After becoming Robin, Tim honed his fighting skills through encounters with several mentors who further refined his technical ability, use of aggression, and weapons training; for the latter, he received weapons training in using a Bo staff from Lady Shiva, a key rival and sometimes-enemy of the Batman, which became a hallmark of the character.During training and various adventures, Tim has engaged each of the other Robins in combat, including Dick Grayson, Jason Todd, and Damian Wayne, all of whom had similar training under Batman's tutelage. In these contests, Tim's combat strengths contrasted with the other Robins; in general, Tim is recognized as the most calculating and cunning combatant of the group as opposed to Dick's physicality, Jason's aggressiveness, and Damian's focus. In his two notable defeats, Todd was able to exploit Tim's usual fighting style through relentless attack and physical power, and Damian initially defeated Tim with an unexpected attack (a 'sucker punch'). Regarding the latter, for a time, Tim had a habit of holding back when facing off against Damian. When Tim finally decided not to hold back, he easily beat Damian with impunity. 
Compared to other experts, Drake was able to fend off several notorious assassins from the Council of Spiders at once while protecting Tam Fox and also in the end game of his plan to destroy several League of Assassins bases, earning commendation from Ra's al Ghul himself who was watching the fight from afar. He managed to survive a potentially fatal encounter with Jason Todd in Battle for the Cowl by pretending to be dead. He was then ultimately rescued by Robin/Damian Wayne. With a special shot, Tim is also inoculated against several toxins the Batman Family has encountered, including Joker Venom, Scarecrow's Fear Toxin, and some of Poison Ivy's pheromones.


=== Other skills ===
Idolizing Batman and Robin, Drake trained from a young age in fields such as acrobatics, forensics, detective work and criminology. The most intellectually gifted of the Robins, Drake has deduced a majority of other heroes' identities, including Flash and Superman. In addition, after foiling Ra's al Ghul's master plan to assassinate everyone Bruce Wayne cared about and ruining the Wayne Family fortune, Ra's has addressed Tim as "Detective," a title the villain once only reserved for Bruce Wayne. His intellect has enabled him to excel in computer science and a grasp of assorted scientific techniques, including biology, engineering, and genetics, which he has been shown to use in his attempts at re-cloning Superboy. Tim also speaks several languages beyond his native English, including Cantonese, Russian, Spanish and German.
Even Nightwing is proud of his skills, saying that Tim was a better Robin than he was.
Due to his tactical ability, rationality, and willingness to use influence and persuasion rather than force, Tim has established himself as a leader even among other vigilantes and superheroes. Similar to other Robins, he has served as leader to the Teen Titans, as well as Young Justice, and was even placed in charge of the rescue efforts of Blüdhaven by Superman, following the attack made by Deathstroke and his fellow villains.


== Costumes ==
Tim Drake's original Robin costume had a red torso, yellow stitching and belt, black boots, green short sleeves, gloves, and pants,. He wore a cape that was black on the outside and yellow on the inside. This costume was different from that of his predecessors in that it provided increased protection with an armored tunic and gorget, long boots, an emergency "R" shuriken on his chest in addition to the traditional batarangs, and a collapsible bo staff as the character's primary weapon.
Following Infinite Crisis and 52, Tim Drake modified his costume to favor a mostly red and black color scheme in tribute to his best friend, Superboy (Kon-El), who died fighting Earth-Prime Superboy. This Robin costume had a red torso, long sleeves, and pants with a cape that was black on the outside and yellow on the inside. It also had yellow stitching and belt, and black domino mask, gloves, and boots.
Tim Drake resumed the motif of a red and black costume when he took on the identity of Red Robin. The Red Robin costume consisted of a long-sleeved red tunic, along with black boots, tights, gloves, cape and cowl. It also included a black-and-gold utility belt that carries Drake's weaponry such as his bo staff and throwing discs. After Drake's confrontation with Ra's al Ghul in Red Robin #12, the costume was slightly altered with spiked gauntlets, a cropped tunic, and a new utility belt.
The theme of a red and black costume continued in 2011 with Tim Drake's New 52 Red Robin outfit. The costume was altered considerably, as it was a single piece red and black costume, with assorted belts on his waist and legs. The full cowl was replaced with a black domino mask, similar to his previous two Robin costume designs. His chest harness was attached to a set of rocket powered wings, designed by Virgil Hawkins a.k.a. Static, that allow Red Robin the ability of flight. He continued to use his bo staff and other assorted equipment.
In the 2016 DC Rebirth relaunch, Tim Drake maintains the role of Red Robin. This Red Robin costume serves as a homage to his first Robin costume. His costume is returned to a similar look as his original Robin costume consisting of a red torso, yellow utility belt, black pants, and green short sleeves, gloves, and boots. He also has new cape that is black on the outside and yellow on the inside similar to the Robin cape. While his Red Robin suit is similar to his first Robin suit, it has two "R"s as his logo instead of one, to show that he is no longer Robin and now Red Robin. The mask is similar to his New 52 domino mask. His bo-staff remains his primary weapon.
With the revived Young Justice series, Tim has returned to the identity of Robin.  His new costume shares similarities with his Rebirth suit, however with various adjustments and revisions.  His suit still has the red torso, black pants, and armored sleeves.  However his pants now merge into split-toed boots with green highlights, losing the green leg guards. He's replaced the bulkier arm guards with smaller arm guards with blades similar to Damian Wayne's Robin suit.  His cape, while still black and gold, is now scalloped to look similar to his later OYL cape. Tim's double-R logo has been replaced with his original single "R" logo.  He continues to use a bo-staff as his primary weapon.
Later in Young Justice, Tim adopts the Drake identity and receives a new suit. The Drake suit is primarily brown throughout the body with black on the arms and boots. It also consists of gold lines and patterns all throughout the suit. The suit lacks a cape. The suit has a black wing-shaped domino mask a red utility belt with a gold buckle that has the bat symbol. The logo on his right pectoral resembles the Robin logo, but is a red crescent. He continues to use a bo-staff as his primary weapon.


== Alternate versions ==


=== Batman Beyond ===
Set after the events of Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker, Tim Drake serves as a supporting character in the ongoing Batman Beyond comic book series. It is suggested that, after a series of examinations, he is freed from the Joker's control although the experience has left him with doubts and he continues to struggle to keep his sanity intact. His wife is revealed to have been aware of her husband's heroic and tortured past, and implied to have met Tim and his former mentor at some point before he retires as Robin.
Bruce offered Tim a job in his company, which he accepted, after he merged it with Lucius Fox Jr.'s company Foxteca and renamed the company Wayne Incorporated. The condition, that Tim would not get himself involved with the superheroic activities of Bruce, Terry, or the JLU and Bruce would pay for his children's college tuition. He is currently working as a communications expert handling satellites and other associated technology.


=== Titans Tomorrow ===

In the "Titans Tomorrow" story arc during writer Geoff Johns' run on Teen Titans, Robin and the rest of the team encounter future versions of themselves from a time after all of their mentors have been killed. As a brutal new Batman, Tim Drake personally hunted down every member of his mentor's Rogues Gallery, turning Arkham Asylum into a cemetery filled with the graves of the original Batman's enemies, whom Tim killed using the same pistol that Joe Chill used to murder Thomas and Martha Wayne when Bruce was a child. Tim had difficulty accepting that he could ever adopt such brutal methods as the direct successor to Batman, who always maintained a strict policy against murder. In a final battle culminating in both present and future Titans colliding, the battle ends in a stalemate. Using a Cosmic Treadmill in the adult Tim's Batcave, Robin and his team return home to contemplate the future they've seen.Following the reboot of the DC Universe during the Flashpoint storyline (also by Johns), resulting in the New 52, a new timeline with new history, this future was replaced by a wartorn dystopian one overrun by Brother Eye, taking place in the future of Prime-Earth. Brother Eye murders the Justice League, mechanizing their corpses into horrific cyborg operatives and taking over their  Watchtower. With most of all the superheroes dead, new heroes have taken up their mantles, with Terry McGinnis becoming Batman.


=== Injustice: Gods Among Us ===
In this reality, based on the video game of the same name, Tim Drake was a new member of the Teen Titans as Red Robin at the time the Joker's nuclear explosion went off in Metropolis. The Titans tracked down Superboy to the Fortress of Solitude where he attempted to stop Superman. Tim tries lifting the Phantom Zone projector, but cannot because Superman placed a safety cap that weighs a hundred tons. When Superboy is mortally wounded, Tim and the other Titans are sent by Superman to the Phantom Zone.
In the prequel to Injustice 2, Tim and the Titans (minus Superboy) are finally rescued by the remaining heroes. But just as he's reuniting with Batman, General Zod escapes the Phantom Zone and kills Tim by piercing his heart with heat vision.


=== DC Bombshells ===
Tim Drake appears in the DC Bombshells continuity as a former prisoner of Katherine-Webb Kane's orphanage, where he and the others were forced to build robots for Axis supporters. He is eventually rescued by the Batgirls, whom he joins afterwards, wearing a baseball costume similar to his Robin costume on the main earth. He appears close to Alysia Yeoh.


=== The New 52: Futures End and Batman Beyond ===
In the Futures End series, an older Tim Drake takes the role of Batman after Terry McGinnis dies. In 2015 Drake stars in the new Batman Beyond series. In the series, Tim Drake faked his death during the war between Prime-Earth and Earth-2 and became a bar owner by the name of Cal Corcoran. He assisted Terry McGinnis who had come back through time to prevent the creation of Brother Eye. After Terry was killed in action defending Drake from Brother Eye's Batman/Joker Hybrid (a Brother Eye-controlled fusion of Batman and Joker from Terry's timeline) he passed on his futuristic Batsuit to Tim and in his dying wish asked him to become the new Batman and go back through time to prevent the war between Prime Earth and Earth 2, which he believed will prevent the creation of Brother Eye.
He successfully travels back through time 5 years using a time band and convinces Brother Eye to not send a beacon to attract the surviving hero's of Earth-2 thus preventing the war with Earth 2. Following the completion of his mission Brother Eye sends Tim back to Terry's timeline hoping to find Terry alive so he can return the Batsuit to him. However what he finds is still same future Terry came from realizing that Terrifitech is a constant and Brother Eye cannot be defeated in the past Tim declares that Brother Eye has not won yet.
A few days later Tim stops a break in at a Wayne-Powers facility by Jokers who attempt to steal a critical component that keeps Brother Eye from detecting Gotham City. He later meets up with Terry's brother Matt who is angry at Tim for wearing his brother's costume and in private declares that he should have been the one who succeed Terry as Batman.
Following the meeting Tim heads outside Gotham City to an internment camp that holding all people captured by Brother Eye. Before he can break into the facility he is attacked by a Brother Eye converted Superman who attempts to kill him. Knowing he cannot kill Superman A.L.F.R.E.D overloads the Batsuits power reserves, temporally injuring Superman. As a result, the Batsuit deactivates itself leaving Tim in his civilian attire and defenceless against Brother Eye's army. He is then captured and placed in a detention center where he meets Terry's friend Max Gibson and to his surprise Barbara Gordon.
However, following the return of  the original Wally West from the pre-Flashpoint timeline, during DC Rebirth, the present resets to accommodate his existence, and ripples across reality end up bring Terry McGinnis back to life, allowing him to resume his role as Future Batman. The future New 52 Tim has been erased due to the timeline change, however, the Titans Tomorrow version of Tim returns in his place, who goes onto become an antihero against the Teen Titans.


=== Nightwing: The New Order ===
In this alternate reality, Nightwing ends an ongoing feud between superpowered beings by activating a device that depowers ninety percent of the super powered population. This builds to a future where super powers are outlawed and any super powered being must take inhibitor medications or be contained and studied should the medications not work on them. In the year 2040, Tim's retired from his Red Robin days and is now raising his three children. When Dick becomes a fugitive after it is discovered his son Jake had superpowers, Tim uses his computer skills to help Dick locate Jake. Tim believes that Dick made the right choice in depowering the population.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Tim Drake appears as a supporting character in Young Justice: Invasion, voiced by Cameron Bowen. This iteration's Robin costume is similar to his "One Year Later" costume with some modern influences, and he uses a bo-staff as a weapon like in the comics. He is introduced in the episode "Happy New Year" as the third version of Robin. In the episode "Satisfaction", he is seen observing Jason Todd's memorial. Tim is shown as initially hesitant to take on leadership roles, something he feels is somewhat forced on by Nightwing. Despite this, the two are shown to have a brotherly connection to one another. This familial relationship also extends to the more experienced Batgirl. Like Dick Grayson in season one, Tim is forbidden from revealing his secret identity to the team (wearing concealing sunglasses when out of costume). He shares a brief moment of interaction with Stephanie Brown during the episode "Before the Dawn". In the finale "Endgame", it is shown that he is in a relationship with Wonder Girl after Kid Flash's demise gave Wonder Girl the courage to kiss him. Due to the large cast of this show, Tim's role was mainly as a background character and was only highlighted on certain occasions. His detective skills were imperative in helping the Blue Beetle overcome control by the Reach.The Tim Drake version of Robin appears in the Teen Titans Go! episode "The Best Robin", voiced by Scott Menville. This version is depicted as very dark and serious and speaks in a gritty voice, borrowing inspiration from Jason Todd's depiction in the comics. He is part of a team of Robins that eventually becomes consumed by competition to determine which Robin is the best one.
Tim Drake's Robin costume from The New Batman Adventures appears as an easter egg in the Justice League Action episode "Play Date".


==== DC Animated Universe ====
Tim Drake makes his animated debut as the second incarnation of Robin in the DCAU. He is an amalgamation of both Jason Todd and Tim Drake and is much younger than in the comics. He has some of Jason's background, including his origin as a young street thief whose father was working for Two-Face and seems to portray a part of Jason's rebellious streak. But possesses his comic book counterpart's excellent detective skills.

Tim first appears in The New Batman Adventures, voiced by Mathew Valencia. His Robin costume looks identical to Dick Grayson's Robin costume from Batman: The Animated Series, but with black sleeves, gloves and briefs with red leggings (similar to the costume Tim would adopt in the comics following Infinite Crisis). Tim is a central character in the series, playing a major role in multiple episodes. He helps Batman and Batgirl take down Two-Face  in "Sins of the Father", helps Batman fight the Joker in "Holiday Knights", is almost a victim of Mr. Freeze's monotone revenge in "Cold Comfort", prevents Batman from murdering the Scarecrow in "Never Fear", almost kills Clayface for a girl he wanted to help in "Growing Pains", assists Batman with a problem involving Etrigan the Demon in "The Demon Within", almost was a victim in Barbara Gordon's nightmare in "Over The Edge", assists Batman and Batgirl against Farmer Brown in "Critters", bonds with Nightwing in "Animal Act" and "Old Wounds", helps to foil Poison Ivy's scheme in "Chemistry", and assists Batman in tracking down the Creeper in "Beware The Creeper".
Robin made guest appearances on other DCAU productions, teaming up with Superman in Superman: The Animated Series, wherein Mathew Valencia reprises his role, and Static in Static Shock, where is voiced by Eli Marienthal and Shane Sweet, in Static Shock, he is also confirmed to be a member of the Titans .He also played a supporting role in the 2003 animated film Batman: Mystery of the Batwoman, again voiced by Sweet, and made a few cameo appearances in the Justice League animated series.
Tim again plays a major role in the 2000 animated film Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker, where Valencia reprises his role a second time as the younger version, while Dean Stockwell voices the middle-aged version of the character. Partially adapting Jason Todd's tragic fate in comic books, a flashback reveals that sometime after Dick Grayson left Gotham following the end of The New Batman Adventures, Robin was abducted by Joker and Harley Quinn while on a solo patrol and tortured by the former to force Batman's secrets out of the boy to the point of insanity and was transformed by Joker, into a miniature version of the latter, dubbed "Joker Jr." or "J.J" in the latter's attempt to humiliate Batman. As "J.J" he was ordered by the Joker to kill Batman, but he fatally shot the Joker instead, before suffering a complete nervous breakdown. While Tim was able to slowly recover with help from Dr. Leslie Thompkins, he was traumatized by the incident and suffered nightmares and thus was not allowed to resume his Robin role, and this incident led to the Batfamily's break and leaving Batman a solo hero again until his own retirement. By the year 2039, Tim managed to leave his crimefighting life behind and become a communications engineer with a wife and two children. However, the now 53-year-old Tim is transformed into the new Joker via stolen genetics technology containing the villain's mind, memories and DNA embedded in his spine during his captivity by the original villain, unbeknownst to Drake. He is finally freed from the villain's control when the Joker's genetic chip gets destroyed by the new Batman, and Tim is taken to the hospital to fully recover from his trauma, in the process mending his relationship with Bruce.


=== Film ===
The Tim Drake version of Red Robin makes his animated debut in Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts and Batman Unlimited: Monster Mayhem, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. This version does not remove his mask. In the former, he is called "Red Robin" only once and by his original codename every other time in Animal Instincts, but is constantly referred as his current codename during the latter. However, Alfred Pennyworth does once refer to him by his real name, confirming this version of Red Robin is Tim Drake. In Batman Unlimited: Mechs vs. Mutants, he is mentioned by Damian Wayne.
A young boy named Tim "Timmy" Drake appears in Batman: Gotham by Gaslight, voiced by Tara Strong. He and two other orphan boys, Dickie and Jason, try to rob a couple on the behalf of their abusive handler, but Batman stops them and defeats their handler.
A Feudal Japan version of Red Robin appears in Batman Ninja, voiced by Kengo Kawanishi in Japanese and by Will Friedle in English.
Tim is mentioned by Damian Wayne in Lego DC Batman: Family Matters.
Tim appears in one of the alternate storylines of the interactive film, Batman: Death in the Family voiced by Nick Carson. In one ending, he saves Jason Todd aka Red Robin from Two-Face. Before Red Robin kills Two-Face, Tim convinces him not to as it would go against the deceased Batman's moral code and reminds Jason of Bruce's dying wish. This leads to Jason changing his ways and adopting Tim as his new sidekick, Bat Kid.


=== Video games ===
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears in Batman: Dark Tomorrow, voiced by Jonathan Roumie.
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears as a playable character in Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu, voiced by Scott Menville.
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears in DC Universe Online, voiced by Wil Wheaton.
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears as a playable character in Young Justice: Legacy, voiced again by Cameron Bowen.
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears in Infinite Crisis, voiced again by Cameron Bowen.
The Tim Drake version of Robin will be one of the four main playable characters in the 2021 video game, Gotham Knights, voiced by Sloane Morgan Siegel.


==== Lego ====
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears as one of the main two playable characters, alongside Batman, in Lego Batman: The Videogame, with his vocals provided by James Arnold Taylor.
The Tim Drake version of Robin returns as a main character in Lego Batman 2: DC Superheroes, voiced by Charlie Schlatter. His Red Robin incarnation is also playable in the Nintendo DS version.
The Tim Drake version of Robin is again a main character in Lego Batman 3: Beyond Gotham, with Charlie Schlatter reprising his role.
The Tim Drake version of Robin appears as a non-playable character in Lego Dimensions, voiced by Scott Menville. He is one of three characters, alongside Frodo Baggins and MetalBeard, to be kidnapped by Lord Vortech due to possessing Kryptonite, which is one of the Foundation Elements that the villain seeks. The three are later fused into a robot called the Tri, which is defeated by Batman, Gandalf the Grey, and Wyldstyle, and separates back into the trio.
The Tim Drake version of Red Robin appears as a playable character in Lego DC Super-Villains, voiced again by Cameron Bowen.


==== Batman: Arkham ====

The Tim Drake version of Robin is a supporting character in Rockstead Studios' Batman: Arkham series. This version is grittier and darker than his depiction in the comics, which the producers found to be fitting with the overall tone of the series. His costume incorporates the traditional red and yellow colors, and he sports a more muscled appearance with a short buzz-cut (similar to Dick Grayson's hairstyle in Batman & Robin). He is also shown to be dating Barbara Gordon. 

Robin first appears in Batman: Arkham City, voiced by Troy Baker. He makes a brief appearance during the main story, where he rescues Batman from several League of Shadows assassins. After most assassins are defeated, Robin explains that he was called by Alfred to assist Batman in Arkham City, but he declines his help and gives him a sample of the Joker's infected blood that the villain has injected him with. He asks Robin to analyze it and look after Gotham in his absence before departing. Robin is a playable character with the addition of the Harley Quinn's Revenge DLC mission, set after the conclusion of the main story, wherein he rescues Batman and several police officers that were captured by Harley Quinn in Arkham City. Robin is also playable in the game's challenge maps, and has two alternate costumes: his Red Robin suit from the comics, and Dick Grayson's Robin suit from Batman: The Animated Series.
Robin appears as a boss in the mobile game Batman: Arkham City Lockdown, a prequel to Arkham City, set shortly before the events of that game. While attempting to apprehend Poison Ivy, who has escaped from Arkham Asylum, he was placed under her mind-control, and later forced to fight Batman when he arrived to apperhend Ivy. Batman ultimately defeated both of them and released Robin from the mind-control.
Robin plays a supporting role in Batman: Arkham Knight, voiced by Matthew Mercer. Throughout the game, both him and Barbara attempt to convince Batman to allow him to assist in taking down Scarecrow, but Batman insteads asks Robin to look after the patients infected with the Jocker's toxic blood, whom they are keeping at their secret hideout at the abandoned Panessa Studios, and also to search for a cure to their condition (although Batman doesn't reveal that he too is among the infected). When Harley Quinn and her gang attack Panessa Studios to liberate the patients, Batman and Robin team up to stop her, and in the process Robin finds out that Batman is infected. However, Batman locks him up before he could do something about it, as he can't stop until Scarecrow is defeated. Near the end of the game, Scarecrow kidnaps both Robin and James Gordon to force Batman to surrender to him. While he manages to subdue Scarecrow, his secret identity is exposed in the process. As such, at the end of the game, Batman seemingly commits suicide to protect his loved ones. Not long after, Tim and Barbara get married, and continue to fight crime in Gotham in an attempt to maintain Batman's legacy alive.
Aside from the main story, Robin appears in the Batgirl: A Matter of Family DLC mission, set before the series' first installment, wherein he and Barbara (as Batgirl) infiltrate a defunct oil rig and battle the Joker and Harley Quinn, who have kidnapped Commissioner Gordon and other police officers. He also serves as the focus of the mission  A Flip of the Coin, where he goes after Two-Face at Hell's Gate Disposal Services; it is mentioned that Two-Face's escape from prison forced Tim and Barbara to delay their honeymoon. Eventually, Robin was made a playable character in all of the game's challenge maps, and given four alternate costumes: his original suit from the comis, his New 52 and One Year Later costumes, and Dick Grayson's Robin suit from the 1960s Batman TV series.
Robin makes a brief appearance in Batman: Arkham VR, voiced by Tom Austen. He is captured and later killed by Killer Croc in the sewers, despite Batman's efforts to save him. It is revealed at the end of the game that the entire ordeal was only a nightmare that Batman had under the influence of the Joker's contaminated blood inside him.


==== Injustice ====
The Tim Drake version of Red Robin appears on a card in the iOS version of Injustice: Gods Among Us. His name is also listed on a hit list during Deathstroke's victory outro.
The Tim Drake version Red Robin makes a cameo appearance in Injustice 2 in Cyborg's ending as one of the deceased Teen Titans brought back to life by Cyborg with Brainiac's powers.


== Collected editions ==
Tim Drake's earliest appearances as Robin were reprinted in trade paperback form shortly after their original publication. However, the ongoing series Robin was not regularly reprinted in trade paperbacks until the beginning of Bill Willingham's run as writer with issue #121. The entire series was reprinted from that point onwards, as was its successor ongoing series Red Robin. All trade paperbacks from this period have since gone out of print.
Beginning in 2015, DC began publishing new editions of trade paperbacks collecting Robin-centric stories starring Tim Drake. These collections began with the story arcs "Rite of Passage" and "Identity Crisis", and continued onward to include the three Robin miniseries and begin collecting the Robin ongoing series. Publication of these trade paperbacks stopped after five volumes.


== Other collected editions ==
Batman: A Lonely Place Of Dying
Batman: Knightfall Vol. 2: Knightquest (New Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #7)
Batman: Knightfall Vol. 3: KnightsEnd (New Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #8–9 and 11–13)
Batman: Prodigal (Robin Vol. 4 #11–13)
Batman: Contagion (Robin Vol. 4 #27–28)
Batman: Legacy (Robin Vol. 4 #32–33)
Batman: Cataclysm (Robin Vol. 4 #53)
Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 2 (Modern Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #67)
Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 3 (Modern Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #68–72)
Batman: No Man's Land Vol. 4 (Modern Edition) (RobinVol. 4 #73)
Batman: New Gotham Vol. 2: Officer Down (Robin Vol. 4 #86)
Bruce Wayne: Murderer? (Robin Vol. 4 #98–99)
Batman: War Games Vol. 1 (Modern Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #121, 126–129)
Batman: War Games Vol. 2 (Modern Edition) (Robin Vol. 4 #130–131)
Teen Titans Vol. 5: Life and Death (Robin Vol. 4 #146–147)
Batman: The Resurrection of Ra's al Ghul (Robin Vol. 4 #168–169 and Annual Vol. 4 #7)
Batman: Gotham Shall Be Judged (Red Robin #22)


== See also ==

Alternative versions of Robin
List of Batman supporting characters
List of DC Comics characters


== References ==


== External links ==
DC Comics: Robin
Tim Drake at the Grand Comics Database
Timothy "Tim" Drake at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Robin (Tim Drake) at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Red Robin (Tim Wayne) at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Tim Drake on IMDb
Tim Drake's Bibliography
Podcast interview with Robin comics artist Freddie Williams II